(2015). "Expression and function of microRNA-188-5p in activated rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts [Retraction]." Int J Clin Exp Pathol 8(11): 15497. . 
Abou-Zeid, A., M. Saad, et al. (2011). "MicroRNA 146a expression in rheumatoid arthritis: association with tumor necrosis factor-alpha and disease activity." Genet Test Mol Biomarkers 15(11): 807-812. AIM: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate the expression of many genes and may be involved in regulating the immune response. Expression of microRNA 146a (miRNA 146a) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was studied by real-time polymerase chain reaction in 70 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 45 patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA), and 60 healthy controls. Disease activity of RA was assessed using disease activity score (DAS) 28 and physical disability using the Improved Health Assessment Questionnaire. RESULTS: miRNA 146a expression was significantly higher in patients with RA than in those with OA and in controls (p<0.0001) but did not differ between the latter two groups (p=0.06). Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was significantly higher in RA than in OA and controls (p<0.0001) and in OA than controls (p=0.001). In patients with RA, miRNA 146a positively correlated with TNF-alpha (p=0.0003), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) (p=0.022), and DAS 28 (p=0.009). miRNA 146a expression did not differ between patients with RA receiving anti TNF-alpha and those receiving conventional therapy (p>0.05). CONCLUSION: miRNA 146a expression is upregulated in patients with RA and may be a potentially useful marker of disease activity in these patients. Lack of overexpression of miRNA 146a in the presence of increased TNF-alpha in OA requires further investigation.. AIM: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate the expression of many genes and may be involved in regulating the immune response. Expression of microRNA 146a (miRNA 146a) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was studied by real-time polymerase chain reaction in 70 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 45 patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA), and 60 healthy controls. Disease activity of RA was assessed using disease activity score (DAS) 28 and physical disability using the Improved Health Assessment Questionnaire. RESULTS: miRNA 146a expression was significantly higher in patients with RA than in those with OA and in controls (p<0.0001) but did not differ between the latter two groups (p=0.06). Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was significantly higher in RA than in OA and controls (p<0.0001) and in OA than controls (p=0.001). In patients with RA, miRNA 146a positively correlated with TNF-alpha (p=0.0003), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) (p=0.022), and DAS 28 (p=0.009). miRNA 146a expression did not differ between patients with RA receiving anti TNF-alpha and those receiving conventional therapy (p>0.05). CONCLUSION: miRNA 146a expression is upregulated in patients with RA and may be a potentially useful marker of disease activity in these patients. Lack of overexpression of miRNA 146a in the presence of increased TNF-alpha in OA requires further investigation.

Akhtar, N., A. K. Singh, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-17 Suppresses TNF-alpha Signaling by Interfering with TRAF2 and cIAP2 Association in Rheumatoid Arthritis Synovial Fibroblasts." J Immunol 197(6): 2219-2228. TNF-alpha is a major cytokine implicated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and its expression is regulated at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. However, the impact of changes in microRNA expression on posttranslational processes involved in TNF-alpha signaling networks is not well defined in RA. In this study, we evaluated the effect of miR-17, a member of the miR-17-92 cluster, on the TNF-alpha signaling pathway in human RA synovial fibroblasts (SFs). We demonstrated that miR-17 expression was significantly low in RA serum, SFs, and synovial tissues, as well as in the serum and joints of adjuvant-induced arthritis rats. RNA-sequencing analysis showed modulation of 664 genes by pre-miR-17 in human RA SFs. Ingenuity pathway analysis of RNA-sequencing data identified the ubiquitin proteasome system in the TNF-alpha signaling pathway as a primary target of miR-17. Western blot analysis confirmed the reduction in TRAF2, cIAP1, cIAP2, USP2, and PSMD13 expression by miR-17 in TNF-alpha-stimulated RA SFs. Immunoprecipitation assays showed that miR-17 restoration increased the K48-linked polyubiquitination of TRAF2, cIAP1, and cIAP2 in TNF-alpha-stimulated RA SFs. Thus, destabilization of TRAF2 by miR-17 reduced the ability of TRAF2 to associate with cIAP2, resulting in the downregulation of TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaBp65, c-Jun, and STAT3 nuclear translocation and the production of IL-6, IL-8, MMP-1, and MMP-13 in human RA SFs. In conclusion, this study provides evidence for the role of miR-17 as a negative regulator of TNF-alpha signaling by modulating the protein ubiquitin processes in RA SFs.. TNF-alpha is a major cytokine implicated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and its expression is regulated at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. However, the impact of changes in microRNA expression on posttranslational processes involved in TNF-alpha signaling networks is not well defined in RA. In this study, we evaluated the effect of miR-17, a member of the miR-17-92 cluster, on the TNF-alpha signaling pathway in human RA synovial fibroblasts (SFs). We demonstrated that miR-17 expression was significantly low in RA serum, SFs, and synovial tissues, as well as in the serum and joints of adjuvant-induced arthritis rats. RNA-sequencing analysis showed modulation of 664 genes by pre-miR-17 in human RA SFs. Ingenuity pathway analysis of RNA-sequencing data identified the ubiquitin proteasome system in the TNF-alpha signaling pathway as a primary target of miR-17. Western blot analysis confirmed the reduction in TRAF2, cIAP1, cIAP2, USP2, and PSMD13 expression by miR-17 in TNF-alpha-stimulated RA SFs. Immunoprecipitation assays showed that miR-17 restoration increased the K48-linked polyubiquitination of TRAF2, cIAP1, and cIAP2 in TNF-alpha-stimulated RA SFs. Thus, destabilization of TRAF2 by miR-17 reduced the ability of TRAF2 to associate with cIAP2, resulting in the downregulation of TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaBp65, c-Jun, and STAT3 nuclear translocation and the production of IL-6, IL-8, MMP-1, and MMP-13 in human RA SFs. In conclusion, this study provides evidence for the role of miR-17 as a negative regulator of TNF-alpha signaling by modulating the protein ubiquitin processes in RA SFs.

Aleman-Avila, I., M. Jimenez-Morales, et al. (2017). "Functional polymorphisms in pre-miR146a and pre-miR499 are associated with systemic lupus erythematosus but not with rheumatoid arthritis or Graves' disease in Mexican patients." Oncotarget 8(54): 91876-91886. Recently, different microRNA (miRNA) gene polymorphisms have been evaluated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and Graves' disease (GD). In the present study, we examined three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in the pre-miR-146a (rs2910164G/C), pre-miR-196a-2 (rs11614913C/T), and pre-miR-499 (rs3746444A/G) genes. Our study population included 900 Mexican patients with RA, SLE, or GD, as well as 486 healthy control individuals with no family history of inflammatory or autoimmune diseases. Genotyping was performed using TaqMan probes and a 5' exonuclease assay. None of the investigated SNPs were associated with RA or GD susceptibility under any genetic model (co-dominant, recessive, or dominant). Genotype and allele frequencies of the miR-196a-2 rs11614913C/T polymorphism were similar between SLE cases and controls. In contrast, the miR-146a rs2910164G/C and miR-499 rs3746444A/G polymorphisms were associated with SLE susceptibility. These SNPs were not associated with lupus nephritis (LN). Our results suggest that polymorphisms in miR-146a, miR-196a-2, and miR-499 are not associated with RA or GD susceptibility. This is the first report documenting that the miR-146a rs2910164G/C and miR-499 rs3746444 polymorphisms are associated with SLE susceptibility but not with LN.. Recently, different microRNA (miRNA) gene polymorphisms have been evaluated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and Graves' disease (GD). In the present study, we examined three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in the pre-miR-146a (rs2910164G/C), pre-miR-196a-2 (rs11614913C/T), and pre-miR-499 (rs3746444A/G) genes. Our study population included 900 Mexican patients with RA, SLE, or GD, as well as 486 healthy control individuals with no family history of inflammatory or autoimmune diseases. Genotyping was performed using TaqMan probes and a 5' exonuclease assay. None of the investigated SNPs were associated with RA or GD susceptibility under any genetic model (co-dominant, recessive, or dominant). Genotype and allele frequencies of the miR-196a-2 rs11614913C/T polymorphism were similar between SLE cases and controls. In contrast, the miR-146a rs2910164G/C and miR-499 rs3746444A/G polymorphisms were associated with SLE susceptibility. These SNPs were not associated with lupus nephritis (LN). Our results suggest that polymorphisms in miR-146a, miR-196a-2, and miR-499 are not associated with RA or GD susceptibility. This is the first report documenting that the miR-146a rs2910164G/C and miR-499 rs3746444 polymorphisms are associated with SLE susceptibility but not with LN.

Alevizos, I. and G. G. Illei (2010). "MicroRNAs in Sjogren's syndrome as a prototypic autoimmune disease." Autoimmun Rev 9(9): 618-621. MicroRNAs are endogenous non-coding RNAs, approximately 22 nucleotides in length. They regulate gene expression and are important in a wide range of physiological and pathological processes. MicroRNA expression is tightly regulated during hematopoiesis and lymphoid cell differentiation and disruption of the entire microRNA network or selected microRNAs may lead to dysregulated immune responses. Abnormalities in microRNA expression related to inflammatory cytokines, Th-17 and regulatory T cells as well as B cells have been described in several autoimmune diseases. Sjogren's syndrome is characterized by features of systemic autoimmunity and chronic inflammation and dysfunction in exocrine organs. Its clinical characteristics along with the relatively easy access to the target tissue and its product makes Sjogren's syndrome appealing to study many aspects of microRNAs in a systemic autoimmune disease, such as their potential as diagnostic or prognostic biomarkers and their role in pathogenesis of autoimmunity, inflammation or organ dysfunction. Encouraging preliminary data from pilot studies in Sjogren's syndrome demonstrate the potential of microRNAs as putative diagnostic and prognostic biomarker candidates which should be tested in larger more definite studies. Combining the comparison of microRNA expression profiles between various clinical subsets of Sjogren's syndrome with bioinformatic modeling tools may predict formerly unsuspected pathways which may contribute to the disease process and lead to the generation of testable novel hypothesis of pathogenesis.. MicroRNAs are endogenous non-coding RNAs, approximately 22 nucleotides in length. They regulate gene expression and are important in a wide range of physiological and pathological processes. MicroRNA expression is tightly regulated during hematopoiesis and lymphoid cell differentiation and disruption of the entire microRNA network or selected microRNAs may lead to dysregulated immune responses. Abnormalities in microRNA expression related to inflammatory cytokines, Th-17 and regulatory T cells as well as B cells have been described in several autoimmune diseases. Sjogren's syndrome is characterized by features of systemic autoimmunity and chronic inflammation and dysfunction in exocrine organs. Its clinical characteristics along with the relatively easy access to the target tissue and its product makes Sjogren's syndrome appealing to study many aspects of microRNAs in a systemic autoimmune disease, such as their potential as diagnostic or prognostic biomarkers and their role in pathogenesis of autoimmunity, inflammation or organ dysfunction. Encouraging preliminary data from pilot studies in Sjogren's syndrome demonstrate the potential of microRNAs as putative diagnostic and prognostic biomarker candidates which should be tested in larger more definite studies. Combining the comparison of microRNA expression profiles between various clinical subsets of Sjogren's syndrome with bioinformatic modeling tools may predict formerly unsuspected pathways which may contribute to the disease process and lead to the generation of testable novel hypothesis of pathogenesis.

Alivernini, S., E. Gremese, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA-155-at the Critical Interface of Innate and Adaptive Immunity in Arthritis." Front Immunol 8: 1932. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that fine-tune the cell response to a changing environment by modulating the cell transcriptome. miR-155 is a multifunctional miRNA enriched in cells of the immune system and is indispensable for the immune response. However, when deregulated, miR-155 contributes to the development of chronic inflammation, autoimmunity, cancer, and fibrosis. Herein, we review the evidence for the pathogenic role of miR-155 in driving aberrant activation of the immune system in rheumatoid arthritis, and its potential as a disease biomarker and therapeutic target.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that fine-tune the cell response to a changing environment by modulating the cell transcriptome. miR-155 is a multifunctional miRNA enriched in cells of the immune system and is indispensable for the immune response. However, when deregulated, miR-155 contributes to the development of chronic inflammation, autoimmunity, cancer, and fibrosis. Herein, we review the evidence for the pathogenic role of miR-155 in driving aberrant activation of the immune system in rheumatoid arthritis, and its potential as a disease biomarker and therapeutic target.

Alivernini, S., M. Kurowska-Stolarska, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-155 influences B-cell function through PU.1 in rheumatoid arthritis." Nat Commun 7: 12970. MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) is an important regulator of B cells in mice. B cells have a critical role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here we show that miR-155 is highly expressed in peripheral blood B cells from RA patients compared with healthy individuals, particularly in the IgD(-)CD27(-) memory B-cell population in ACPA(+) RA. MiR-155 is highly expressed in RA B cells from patients with synovial tissue containing ectopic germinal centres compared with diffuse synovial tissue. MiR-155 expression is associated reciprocally with lower expression of PU.1 at B-cell level in the synovial compartment. Stimulation of healthy donor B cells with CD40L, anti-IgM, IL-21, CpG, IFN-alpha, IL-6 or BAFF induces miR-155 and decreases PU.1 expression. Finally, inhibition of endogenous miR-155 in B cells of RA patients restores PU.1 and reduces production of antibodies. Our data suggest that miR-155 is an important regulator of B-cell activation in RA.. MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) is an important regulator of B cells in mice. B cells have a critical role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here we show that miR-155 is highly expressed in peripheral blood B cells from RA patients compared with healthy individuals, particularly in the IgD(-)CD27(-) memory B-cell population in ACPA(+) RA. MiR-155 is highly expressed in RA B cells from patients with synovial tissue containing ectopic germinal centres compared with diffuse synovial tissue. MiR-155 expression is associated reciprocally with lower expression of PU.1 at B-cell level in the synovial compartment. Stimulation of healthy donor B cells with CD40L, anti-IgM, IL-21, CpG, IFN-alpha, IL-6 or BAFF induces miR-155 and decreases PU.1 expression. Finally, inhibition of endogenous miR-155 in B cells of RA patients restores PU.1 and reduces production of antibodies. Our data suggest that miR-155 is an important regulator of B-cell activation in RA.

Alivernini, S., B. Tolusso, et al. (2018). "Synovial Predictors of Differentiation to Definite Arthritis in Patients With Seronegative Undifferentiated Peripheral Inflammatory Arthritis: microRNA Signature, Histological, and Ultrasound Features." Front Med (Lausanne) 5: 186. Objectives: To examine synovial tissue (ST) predictors of clinical differentiation in patients with seronegative undifferentiated peripheral inflammatory arthritis (UPIA). Methods: Fourty-two patients with IgA/IgM-Rheumatoid Factor and anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies negative UPIA, naive to Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs, underwent Gray Scale (GSUS) and power Doppler (PDUS) evaluation and Ultrasound (US) guided ST biopsy. CD68, CD3, CD21, CD20, and CD31 synovial expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Whole ST microRNA expression was assessed using miScript miRNA PCR Array. Peripheral blood (PB) and synovial fluid (SF) IL-6, VEGF-A, and VEGF-D levels were measured by ELISA and ST TNF expression was assessed by RT-PCR. Each patient was prospectively monitored and classified at baseline and within 1 year as UPIA, Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), Spondyloarthritis (SpA) or Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA), respectively. Results: At baseline, CD68(+) cells were the most common cells within the lining layer (p < 0.001) in seronegative UPIA, directly correlating with GSUS (R = 0.36; p = 0.02) and PDUS (R = 0.55; p < 0.001). Synovial CD31(+) vessels count directly correlated with GSUS (R = 0.41; p = 0.01) and PDUS (R = 0.52; p < 0.001). During the follow-up, 6 (14.3%) UPIA reached a definite diagnosis (2 RA, 2 SpA and 2 PsA, respectively). At baseline, UPIA who differentiated had higher GSUS (p = 0.01), PDUS scores (p = 0.02) and higher histological scores for CD68(+) (p = 0.005 and p = 0.04 for lining and sublining respectively), sublining CD3(+) cells (p = 0.002), CD31(+) vessels count (p < 0.001) and higher IL-6 PB levels (p = 0.01) than patients who remained as UPIA. MiRNA PCR Array showed that among the 86 tested miRNA species, at baseline, miR-346 and miR-214 were significantly down-regulated (p = 0.02 for both) in ST of UPIA who differentiated than in patients who remained as UPIA, inversely correlating with the lining CD68(+) cells IHC score (R = -0.641; p = 0.048) and CD31(+) vessels count (R = -0.665; p = 0.036) and with higher baseline ST expression of TNF (p = 0.014). Finally, logistic regression analysis demonstrated that baseline GSUS and PDUS scores >/=1.5 [OR:22.93 (95%CI:0.98-534.30)] and CD31(+) vessels count >/=24.3 [OR:23.66 (95%CI:1.50-373.02)] were independent factors associated with the development of definite arthritis. Conclusions: MiRNA signature, histological and US features of ST may help in the identification of seronegative UPIA with high likelihood of clinical differentiation toward definite seronegative arthritis.. Objectives: To examine synovial tissue (ST) predictors of clinical differentiation in patients with seronegative undifferentiated peripheral inflammatory arthritis (UPIA). Methods: Fourty-two patients with IgA/IgM-Rheumatoid Factor and anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies negative UPIA, naive to Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs, underwent Gray Scale (GSUS) and power Doppler (PDUS) evaluation and Ultrasound (US) guided ST biopsy. CD68, CD3, CD21, CD20, and CD31 synovial expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Whole ST microRNA expression was assessed using miScript miRNA PCR Array. Peripheral blood (PB) and synovial fluid (SF) IL-6, VEGF-A, and VEGF-D levels were measured by ELISA and ST TNF expression was assessed by RT-PCR. Each patient was prospectively monitored and classified at baseline and within 1 year as UPIA, Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), Spondyloarthritis (SpA) or Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA), respectively. Results: At baseline, CD68(+) cells were the most common cells within the lining layer (p < 0.001) in seronegative UPIA, directly correlating with GSUS (R = 0.36; p = 0.02) and PDUS (R = 0.55; p < 0.001). Synovial CD31(+) vessels count directly correlated with GSUS (R = 0.41; p = 0.01) and PDUS (R = 0.52; p < 0.001). During the follow-up, 6 (14.3%) UPIA reached a definite diagnosis (2 RA, 2 SpA and 2 PsA, respectively). At baseline, UPIA who differentiated had higher GSUS (p = 0.01), PDUS scores (p = 0.02) and higher histological scores for CD68(+) (p = 0.005 and p = 0.04 for lining and sublining respectively), sublining CD3(+) cells (p = 0.002), CD31(+) vessels count (p < 0.001) and higher IL-6 PB levels (p = 0.01) than patients who remained as UPIA. MiRNA PCR Array showed that among the 86 tested miRNA species, at baseline, miR-346 and miR-214 were significantly down-regulated (p = 0.02 for both) in ST of UPIA who differentiated than in patients who remained as UPIA, inversely correlating with the lining CD68(+) cells IHC score (R = -0.641; p = 0.048) and CD31(+) vessels count (R = -0.665; p = 0.036) and with higher baseline ST expression of TNF (p = 0.014). Finally, logistic regression analysis demonstrated that baseline GSUS and PDUS scores >/=1.5 [OR:22.93 (95%CI:0.98-534.30)] and CD31(+) vessels count >/=24.3 [OR:23.66 (95%CI:1.50-373.02)] were independent factors associated with the development of definite arthritis. Conclusions: MiRNA signature, histological and US features of ST may help in the identification of seronegative UPIA with high likelihood of clinical differentiation toward definite seronegative arthritis.

Alsaleh, G., A. Francois, et al. (2014). "MiR-30a-3p negatively regulates BAFF synthesis in systemic sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis fibroblasts." PLoS One 9(10): e111266. We evaluated micro (mi) RNA-mediated regulation of BAFF expression in fibroblasts using two concomitant models: (i) synovial fibroblasts (FLS) isolated from healthy controls (N) or Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients; (ii) human dermal fibroblasts (HDF) isolated from healthy controls (N) or Systemic Sclerosis (SSc) patients. Using RT-qPCR and ELISA, we first showed that SScHDF synthesized and released BAFF in response to Poly(I:C) or IFN-gamma treatment, as previously observed in RAFLS, whereas NHDF released BAFF preferentially in response to IFN-gamma. Next, we demonstrated that miR-30a-3p expression was down regulated in RAFLS and SScHDF stimulated with Poly(I:C) or IFN-gamma. Moreover, we demonstrated that transfecting miR-30a-3p mimic in Poly(I:C)- and IFN-gamma-activated RAFLS and SScHDF showed a strong decrease on BAFF synthesis and release and thus B cells survival in our model. Interestingly, FLS and HDF isolated from healthy subjects express higher levels of miR-30a-3p and lower levels of BAFF than RAFLS and SScHDF. Transfection of miR-30a-3p antisense in Poly(I:C)- and IFN-gamma-activated NFLS and NHDF upregulated BAFF secretion, confirming that this microRNA is a basal repressors of BAFF expression in cells from healthy donors. Our data suggest a critical role of miR-30a-3p in the regulation of BAFF expression, which could have a major impact in the regulation of the autoimmune responses occurring in RA and SSc.. We evaluated micro (mi) RNA-mediated regulation of BAFF expression in fibroblasts using two concomitant models: (i) synovial fibroblasts (FLS) isolated from healthy controls (N) or Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients; (ii) human dermal fibroblasts (HDF) isolated from healthy controls (N) or Systemic Sclerosis (SSc) patients. Using RT-qPCR and ELISA, we first showed that SScHDF synthesized and released BAFF in response to Poly(I:C) or IFN-gamma treatment, as previously observed in RAFLS, whereas NHDF released BAFF preferentially in response to IFN-gamma. Next, we demonstrated that miR-30a-3p expression was down regulated in RAFLS and SScHDF stimulated with Poly(I:C) or IFN-gamma. Moreover, we demonstrated that transfecting miR-30a-3p mimic in Poly(I:C)- and IFN-gamma-activated RAFLS and SScHDF showed a strong decrease on BAFF synthesis and release and thus B cells survival in our model. Interestingly, FLS and HDF isolated from healthy subjects express higher levels of miR-30a-3p and lower levels of BAFF than RAFLS and SScHDF. Transfection of miR-30a-3p antisense in Poly(I:C)- and IFN-gamma-activated NFLS and NHDF upregulated BAFF secretion, confirming that this microRNA is a basal repressors of BAFF expression in cells from healthy donors. Our data suggest a critical role of miR-30a-3p in the regulation of BAFF expression, which could have a major impact in the regulation of the autoimmune responses occurring in RA and SSc.

Alsaleh, G., R. Nehmar, et al. (2016). "Reduced DICER1 Expression Bestows Rheumatoid Arthritis Synoviocytes Proinflammatory Properties and Resistance to Apoptotic Stimuli." Arthritis Rheumatol 68(8): 1839-1848. OBJECTIVE: While the regulatory role of individual microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is well established, the role of DICER1 in the pathogenesis of the disease has not yet been investigated. The purpose of this study was to analyze the expression of factors involved in miRNA biogenesis in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) from RA patients and to monitor the arthritis triggered by K/BxN serum transfer in mice deficient in the Dicer gene (Dicer(d/d) ). METHODS: The expression of genes and precursor miRNAs was quantified by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). MicroRNA macroarray profiling was monitored by qRT-PCR. Cytokines were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Experimental arthritis in mice was achieved by the transfer of serum from K/BxN donors. Apoptosis was quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: We found decreased DICER1 and mature miRNA expression in synovial fibroblasts from RA patients. These cells were hyperresponsive to lipopolysaccharide, as evidenced by their increased interleukin-6 secretion upon stimulation. Experimental serum-transfer arthritis in Dicer(d/d) mice confirmed that an unbalanced biogenesis of miRNAs correlated with an enhanced inflammatory response. Synoviocytes from both RA patients and Dicer(d/d) mice exhibited increased resistance to apoptotic stimuli. CONCLUSION: The findings of this study further substantiate the important role of DICER1 in the maintenance of homeostasis and the regulation of inflammatory responses.. OBJECTIVE: While the regulatory role of individual microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is well established, the role of DICER1 in the pathogenesis of the disease has not yet been investigated. The purpose of this study was to analyze the expression of factors involved in miRNA biogenesis in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) from RA patients and to monitor the arthritis triggered by K/BxN serum transfer in mice deficient in the Dicer gene (Dicer(d/d) ). METHODS: The expression of genes and precursor miRNAs was quantified by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). MicroRNA macroarray profiling was monitored by qRT-PCR. Cytokines were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Experimental arthritis in mice was achieved by the transfer of serum from K/BxN donors. Apoptosis was quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: We found decreased DICER1 and mature miRNA expression in synovial fibroblasts from RA patients. These cells were hyperresponsive to lipopolysaccharide, as evidenced by their increased interleukin-6 secretion upon stimulation. Experimental serum-transfer arthritis in Dicer(d/d) mice confirmed that an unbalanced biogenesis of miRNAs correlated with an enhanced inflammatory response. Synoviocytes from both RA patients and Dicer(d/d) mice exhibited increased resistance to apoptotic stimuli. CONCLUSION: The findings of this study further substantiate the important role of DICER1 in the maintenance of homeostasis and the regulation of inflammatory responses.

Ammari, M., C. Jorgensen, et al. (2013). "Impact of microRNAs on the understanding and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis." Curr Opin Rheumatol 25(2): 225-233. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: It is becoming more and more obvious that epigenetic processes influence the development of rheumatic diseases as strongly as the genetic background. Research on the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatic diseases, and especially in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), has been very active for the past 5 years. Most studies have reported the aberrant expression of miRNAs in the circulation or joint tissues, and the pathogenic role of a few of them has been investigated in the experimental models. RECENT FINDINGS: As inflammation and joint damage are the main hallmarks of RA, we focused on the three miRNAs, miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-223, whose functions have been studied in both the processes and the pathogenic role investigated in the experimental models. SUMMARY: Focusing on the role of miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-223 in RA pathogenesis emphasizes the intertwined relationships between bone homeostasis and immunity, and the prominent role of monocytes in RA. Studying the miRNAs in RA will shed light on the pathological processes and help in identifying novel drug candidates and biomarkers.. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: It is becoming more and more obvious that epigenetic processes influence the development of rheumatic diseases as strongly as the genetic background. Research on the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatic diseases, and especially in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), has been very active for the past 5 years. Most studies have reported the aberrant expression of miRNAs in the circulation or joint tissues, and the pathogenic role of a few of them has been investigated in the experimental models. RECENT FINDINGS: As inflammation and joint damage are the main hallmarks of RA, we focused on the three miRNAs, miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-223, whose functions have been studied in both the processes and the pathogenic role investigated in the experimental models. SUMMARY: Focusing on the role of miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-223 in RA pathogenesis emphasizes the intertwined relationships between bone homeostasis and immunity, and the prominent role of monocytes in RA. Studying the miRNAs in RA will shed light on the pathological processes and help in identifying novel drug candidates and biomarkers.

Anaparti, V., I. Smolik, et al. (2017). "Whole blood microRNA expression pattern differentiates patients with rheumatoid arthritis, their seropositive first-degree relatives, and healthy unrelated control subjects." Arthritis Res Ther 19(1): 249. BACKGROUND: Epigenetic mechanisms can integrate gene-environment interactions that mediate disease transition from preclinical to clinically overt rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To better understand their role, we evaluated microRNA (miRNA, miR) expression profile in indigenous North American patients with RA who were positive for anticitrullinated protein antibodies; their autoantibody-positive, asymptomatic first-degree relatives (FDRs); and disease-free healthy control subjects (HCs). METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from whole blood samples obtained from HC (n = 12), patients with RA (n = 18), and FDRs (n = 12). Expression of 35 selected relevant miRNAs, as well as associated downstream messenger RNA (mRNA) targets of miR-103a-3p, was determined by qRT-PCR. RESULTS: Whole blood expression profiling identified significantly differential miRNA expression in patients with RA (13 miRNAs) and FDRs (10 miRNAs) compared with HCs. Among these, expression of miR-103a-3p, miR-155, miR-146a-5p, and miR-26b-3p was significantly upregulated, whereas miR-346 was significantly downregulated, in both study groups. Expression of miR-103a-3p was consistently elevated in FDRs at two time points 1 year apart. We also confirmed increased miR-103a-3p expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with RA compared with HCs. Predicted target analyses of differentially expressed miRNAs in patients with RA and FDRs showed overlapping biological networks. Consistent with these curated networks, mRNA expression of DICER1, AGO1, CREB1, DAPK1, and TP53 was downregulated significantly with miR-103a-3p expression in FDRs. CONCLUSIONS: We highlight systematically altered circulating miRNA expression in at-risk FDRs prior to RA onset, a profile they shared with patients with RA. Prominently consistent miR-103a-3p expression indicates its utility as a prognostic biomarker for preclinical RA while highlighting biological pathways important for transition to clinically detectable disease.. BACKGROUND: Epigenetic mechanisms can integrate gene-environment interactions that mediate disease transition from preclinical to clinically overt rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To better understand their role, we evaluated microRNA (miRNA, miR) expression profile in indigenous North American patients with RA who were positive for anticitrullinated protein antibodies; their autoantibody-positive, asymptomatic first-degree relatives (FDRs); and disease-free healthy control subjects (HCs). METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from whole blood samples obtained from HC (n = 12), patients with RA (n = 18), and FDRs (n = 12). Expression of 35 selected relevant miRNAs, as well as associated downstream messenger RNA (mRNA) targets of miR-103a-3p, was determined by qRT-PCR. RESULTS: Whole blood expression profiling identified significantly differential miRNA expression in patients with RA (13 miRNAs) and FDRs (10 miRNAs) compared with HCs. Among these, expression of miR-103a-3p, miR-155, miR-146a-5p, and miR-26b-3p was significantly upregulated, whereas miR-346 was significantly downregulated, in both study groups. Expression of miR-103a-3p was consistently elevated in FDRs at two time points 1 year apart. We also confirmed increased miR-103a-3p expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with RA compared with HCs. Predicted target analyses of differentially expressed miRNAs in patients with RA and FDRs showed overlapping biological networks. Consistent with these curated networks, mRNA expression of DICER1, AGO1, CREB1, DAPK1, and TP53 was downregulated significantly with miR-103a-3p expression in FDRs. CONCLUSIONS: We highlight systematically altered circulating miRNA expression in at-risk FDRs prior to RA onset, a profile they shared with patients with RA. Prominently consistent miR-103a-3p expression indicates its utility as a prognostic biomarker for preclinical RA while highlighting biological pathways important for transition to clinically detectable disease.

Andersson, K. M., M. Turkkila, et al. (2017). "Survivin controls biogenesis of microRNA in smokers: A link to pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis." Biochim Biophys Acta 1863(3): 663-673. MicroRNAs (miRs) represent a part of epigenetic control of autoimmunity gaining increasing attention in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Since cigarette smoking plays important role in RA pathogenesis and reprograms transcriptional profile of miRNAs, we ask if the onco-protein survivin, a novel biomarker of RA, may provide a link between smoking and miRNA. Studying survivin expression in leukocytes of 144 female RA patients we observed that smoking patients had higher survivin transcription and a remarkable spreading of survivin isoforms. This was associated with restricted pattern and low production of miRs. Additionally, miRNA processing enzymes Dicer and DGRC8 were decreased in the patients with survivin isoform spreading. The direct contribution of survivin in miRs biogenesis was confirmed by a massive increase of miRs production following inhibition of survivin in leukocyte cultures. Dicer is shown to mediate these effects of survivin. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated binding of survivin to the Dicer promoter region. Dicer expression increased 5-folds following survivin inhibition. Taken together, this study presents experimental evidence of a novel cellular function of survivin, control of miRs biogenesis. Up-regulation of survivin in smokers suggests its role as effector of the adverse epigenetic control in RA.. MicroRNAs (miRs) represent a part of epigenetic control of autoimmunity gaining increasing attention in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Since cigarette smoking plays important role in RA pathogenesis and reprograms transcriptional profile of miRNAs, we ask if the onco-protein survivin, a novel biomarker of RA, may provide a link between smoking and miRNA. Studying survivin expression in leukocytes of 144 female RA patients we observed that smoking patients had higher survivin transcription and a remarkable spreading of survivin isoforms. This was associated with restricted pattern and low production of miRs. Additionally, miRNA processing enzymes Dicer and DGRC8 were decreased in the patients with survivin isoform spreading. The direct contribution of survivin in miRs biogenesis was confirmed by a massive increase of miRs production following inhibition of survivin in leukocyte cultures. Dicer is shown to mediate these effects of survivin. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated binding of survivin to the Dicer promoter region. Dicer expression increased 5-folds following survivin inhibition. Taken together, this study presents experimental evidence of a novel cellular function of survivin, control of miRs biogenesis. Up-regulation of survivin in smokers suggests its role as effector of the adverse epigenetic control in RA.

Apparailly, F. (2010). "Looking for microRNA polymorphisms as new rheumatoid arthritis risk loci?" Joint Bone Spine 77(5): 377-379. . 
Araki, Y. and T. Mimura (2017). "Matrix Metalloproteinase Gene Activation Resulting from Disordred Epigenetic Mechanisms in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Int J Mol Sci 18(5)Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are implicated in the degradation of extracellular matrix (ECM). Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial fibroblasts (SFs) produce matrix-degrading enzymes, including MMPs, which facilitate cartilage destruction in the affected joints in RA. Epigenetic mechanisms contribute to change in the chromatin state, resulting in an alteration of gene transcription. Recently, MMP gene activation has been shown to be caused in RASFs by the dysregulation of epigenetic changes, such as histone modifications, DNA methylation, and microRNA (miRNA) signaling. In this paper, we review the role of MMPs in the pathogenesis of RA as well as the disordered epigenetic mechanisms regulating MMP gene activation in RASFs.. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are implicated in the degradation of extracellular matrix (ECM). Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial fibroblasts (SFs) produce matrix-degrading enzymes, including MMPs, which facilitate cartilage destruction in the affected joints in RA. Epigenetic mechanisms contribute to change in the chromatin state, resulting in an alteration of gene transcription. Recently, MMP gene activation has been shown to be caused in RASFs by the dysregulation of epigenetic changes, such as histone modifications, DNA methylation, and microRNA (miRNA) signaling. In this paper, we review the role of MMPs in the pathogenesis of RA as well as the disordered epigenetic mechanisms regulating MMP gene activation in RASFs.

Arntz, O. J., B. C. Pieters, et al. (2015). "Oral administration of bovine milk derived extracellular vesicles attenuates arthritis in two mouse models." Mol Nutr Food Res 59(9): 1701-1712. SCOPE: This study shows the effect of bovine milk derived extracellular vesicles (BMEVs) on spontaneous polyarthritis in IL-1Ra-deficient mice and collagen-induced arthritis. METHODS AND RESULTS: BMEVs were isolated from semi-skimmed milk by ultracentrifugation and the particle size was around 100 nm by dynamic light scattering and electron microscopy. BMEVs expressed exosome marker CD63, immunoregulatory microRNA's (miR-30a, -223, -92a), and milk-specific beta-casein and beta-lactoglobulin mRNA. In vitro, PKH-67-labeled BMEVs were taken up by RAW264.7, splenocytes, and intestinal cells as determined by flow cytometry and confocal microscopy. IL-1Ra(-/-) mice received BMEVs by daily oral gavage starting at wk 5 till 15 after birth and collagen-induced arthritis mice via their drinking water starting 1 wk before immunization till day 40. Macroscopically, BMEV treatment delayed the onset of arthritis and histology showed diminished cartilage pathology and bone marrow inflammation in both models. BMEV treatment also reduced the serum levels of MCP-1 and IL-6 and their production by splenic cells. BMEV treatment diminished the anticollagen IgG2a levels, which was accompanied by reduced splenic Th1 (Tbet) and Th17 (RORgammaT) mRNA. CONCLUSION: This is the first report that oral delivery of BMEVs ameliorates experimental arthritis and this warrants further research to determine whether this beneficial effect can be seen in rheumatoid arthritis patients.. SCOPE: This study shows the effect of bovine milk derived extracellular vesicles (BMEVs) on spontaneous polyarthritis in IL-1Ra-deficient mice and collagen-induced arthritis. METHODS AND RESULTS: BMEVs were isolated from semi-skimmed milk by ultracentrifugation and the particle size was around 100 nm by dynamic light scattering and electron microscopy. BMEVs expressed exosome marker CD63, immunoregulatory microRNA's (miR-30a, -223, -92a), and milk-specific beta-casein and beta-lactoglobulin mRNA. In vitro, PKH-67-labeled BMEVs were taken up by RAW264.7, splenocytes, and intestinal cells as determined by flow cytometry and confocal microscopy. IL-1Ra(-/-) mice received BMEVs by daily oral gavage starting at wk 5 till 15 after birth and collagen-induced arthritis mice via their drinking water starting 1 wk before immunization till day 40. Macroscopically, BMEV treatment delayed the onset of arthritis and histology showed diminished cartilage pathology and bone marrow inflammation in both models. BMEV treatment also reduced the serum levels of MCP-1 and IL-6 and their production by splenic cells. BMEV treatment diminished the anticollagen IgG2a levels, which was accompanied by reduced splenic Th1 (Tbet) and Th17 (RORgammaT) mRNA. CONCLUSION: This is the first report that oral delivery of BMEVs ameliorates experimental arthritis and this warrants further research to determine whether this beneficial effect can be seen in rheumatoid arthritis patients.

Aziz, F. (2016). "The emerging role of miR-223 as novel potential diagnostic and therapeutic target for inflammatory disorders." Cell Immunol 303: 1-6. Since their discovery of more than a decade ago, microRNAs have been demonstrated to have profound effects on almost every aspect of biology. Specific microRNAs have emerged as key players in disease biology by playing crucial role in disease development and progression. This review draws attention to miR-223 that has been reported to be abnormally expressed in several diseases like diabetes-type2, sepsis, rheumatoid arthritis, viral infections likes' human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) and inflammatory disorders. It regulates inflammation by targeting different targets, including cytoplasmic activation/proliferation-associated protein-1 (Caprin-1), Insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R), heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90), STAT5, artemin, EPB41L3, Ect2, Pknox1, C/EBPalpha, C/EBPbeta, E2F1, FOXO1, NFI-A and other transcription factors. In this review, we summarized the recent studies of miR-223, their mechanisms to develop inflammation diseases and its importance role to use as biomarkers for early diagnosis and therapeutic target against inflammation diseases.. Since their discovery of more than a decade ago, microRNAs have been demonstrated to have profound effects on almost every aspect of biology. Specific microRNAs have emerged as key players in disease biology by playing crucial role in disease development and progression. This review draws attention to miR-223 that has been reported to be abnormally expressed in several diseases like diabetes-type2, sepsis, rheumatoid arthritis, viral infections likes' human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) and inflammatory disorders. It regulates inflammation by targeting different targets, including cytoplasmic activation/proliferation-associated protein-1 (Caprin-1), Insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R), heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90), STAT5, artemin, EPB41L3, Ect2, Pknox1, C/EBPalpha, C/EBPbeta, E2F1, FOXO1, NFI-A and other transcription factors. In this review, we summarized the recent studies of miR-223, their mechanisms to develop inflammation diseases and its importance role to use as biomarkers for early diagnosis and therapeutic target against inflammation diseases.

Balzano, F., M. Deiana, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA Expression Analysis of Centenarians and Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients Reveals a Common Expression Pattern." Int J Med Sci 14(7): 622-628. Micro-RNA (miRNA) are a family of small non-coding ribonucleic acids that inhibits post-transcriptionally the expression of their target messenger RNA (mRNA). We are interested in studying the involvement of miRNA in longevity and autoimmune diseases. In this study we compared the different expression of seven microRNAs between human plasma healthy controls, plasma samples of centenarians and samples from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. We used the Life Technologies' protocol to quantify seven miRNAs from 62 plasma samples: 20 healthy human controls, 14 centenarians, 28 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. TaqMan MicroRNA assays were used to analyze the expression profiles of miR-125b-5p, miR-425-5p, miR-200b5p, miR-200c-3p, miR-579-3p, miR-212-3p, miR-21-5p and miR-126-3p. The relative expression of mature miRNAs was analyzed using software REST. Our results show that miR-425-5p, miR-21 and miR-212 significantly decreased in centenarians and in patients with rheumatoid arthritis compared with controls. Furthermore in this work we highlight a connection between corticosteroid treatment and miRNAs expression.. Micro-RNA (miRNA) are a family of small non-coding ribonucleic acids that inhibits post-transcriptionally the expression of their target messenger RNA (mRNA). We are interested in studying the involvement of miRNA in longevity and autoimmune diseases. In this study we compared the different expression of seven microRNAs between human plasma healthy controls, plasma samples of centenarians and samples from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. We used the Life Technologies' protocol to quantify seven miRNAs from 62 plasma samples: 20 healthy human controls, 14 centenarians, 28 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. TaqMan MicroRNA assays were used to analyze the expression profiles of miR-125b-5p, miR-425-5p, miR-200b5p, miR-200c-3p, miR-579-3p, miR-212-3p, miR-21-5p and miR-126-3p. The relative expression of mature miRNAs was analyzed using software REST. Our results show that miR-425-5p, miR-21 and miR-212 significantly decreased in centenarians and in patients with rheumatoid arthritis compared with controls. Furthermore in this work we highlight a connection between corticosteroid treatment and miRNAs expression.

Baxter, D., I. B. McInnes, et al. (2012). "Novel regulatory mechanisms in inflammatory arthritis: a role for microRNA." Immunol Cell Biol 90(3): 288-292. Elucidating pathways that regulate cytokine production in the context of autoimmune disease will likely lead to the development of novel therapeutics. Herein, we review data suggesting that microRNAs (miRs) represent one such level of regulatory activity, with particular emphasis on the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). A series of miRs have been identified to be dysregulated in cell subsets within the articular compartment of patients with RA. These have a critical role in regulating cartilage-invading phenotype of RA synovial fibroblasts. More recently, several studies suggest that miRs also regulate leukocyte activation and cytokine production that in turn contribute to the immunologic component of effector synovial pathology. Together, these observations open an exciting new vista of understanding and therapeutic opportunity for this difficult and common disease.. Elucidating pathways that regulate cytokine production in the context of autoimmune disease will likely lead to the development of novel therapeutics. Herein, we review data suggesting that microRNAs (miRs) represent one such level of regulatory activity, with particular emphasis on the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). A series of miRs have been identified to be dysregulated in cell subsets within the articular compartment of patients with RA. These have a critical role in regulating cartilage-invading phenotype of RA synovial fibroblasts. More recently, several studies suggest that miRs also regulate leukocyte activation and cytokine production that in turn contribute to the immunologic component of effector synovial pathology. Together, these observations open an exciting new vista of understanding and therapeutic opportunity for this difficult and common disease.

Bhanji, R. A., T. Eystathioy, et al. (2007). "Clinical and serological features of patients with autoantibodies to GW/P bodies." Clin Immunol 125(3): 247-256. GW bodies (GWBs) are unique cytoplasmic structures involved in messenger RNA (mRNA) processing and RNA interference (RNAi). GWBs contain mRNA, components of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), microRNA (miRNA), Argonaute proteins, the Ge-1/Hedls protein and other enzymes involving mRNA degradation. The objective of this study was to identify the target GWB autoantigens reactive with 55 sera from patients with anti-GWB autoantibodies and to identify clinical features associated with these antibodies. Analysis by addressable laser bead immunoassay (ALBIA) and immunoprecipitation of recombinant proteins indicated that autoantibodies in this cohort of anti-GWB sera were directed against Ge-1/Hedls (58%), GW182 (40%) and Ago2 (16%). GWB autoantibodies targeted epitopes that included the N-terminus of Ago2 and the nuclear localization signal (NLS) containing region of Ge-1/Hedls. Clinical data were available on 42 patients of which 39 were female and the mean age was 61 years. The most common clinical presentations were neurological symptoms (i.e. ataxia, motor and sensory neuropathy) (33%), Sjogren's syndrome (SjS) (31%) and the remainder had a variety of other diagnoses that included systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Moreover, 44% of patients with anti-GWB antibodies had reactivity to Ro52. These studies indicate that Ge-1 is a common target of anti-GWB sera and the majority of patients in a GWB cohort had SjS and neurological disease.. GW bodies (GWBs) are unique cytoplasmic structures involved in messenger RNA (mRNA) processing and RNA interference (RNAi). GWBs contain mRNA, components of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), microRNA (miRNA), Argonaute proteins, the Ge-1/Hedls protein and other enzymes involving mRNA degradation. The objective of this study was to identify the target GWB autoantigens reactive with 55 sera from patients with anti-GWB autoantibodies and to identify clinical features associated with these antibodies. Analysis by addressable laser bead immunoassay (ALBIA) and immunoprecipitation of recombinant proteins indicated that autoantibodies in this cohort of anti-GWB sera were directed against Ge-1/Hedls (58%), GW182 (40%) and Ago2 (16%). GWB autoantibodies targeted epitopes that included the N-terminus of Ago2 and the nuclear localization signal (NLS) containing region of Ge-1/Hedls. Clinical data were available on 42 patients of which 39 were female and the mean age was 61 years. The most common clinical presentations were neurological symptoms (i.e. ataxia, motor and sensory neuropathy) (33%), Sjogren's syndrome (SjS) (31%) and the remainder had a variety of other diagnoses that included systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Moreover, 44% of patients with anti-GWB antibodies had reactivity to Ro52. These studies indicate that Ge-1 is a common target of anti-GWB sera and the majority of patients in a GWB cohort had SjS and neurological disease.

Bluml, S., M. Bonelli, et al. (2011). "Essential role of microRNA-155 in the pathogenesis of autoimmune arthritis in mice." Arthritis Rheum 63(5): 1281-1288. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a new class of regulatory elements. Altered expression of miRNA has been demonstrated in the inflamed joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim of this study was to examine the role of miRNA in the pathogenesis of autoimmune arthritis, using 2 murine models. METHODS: Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and K/BxN serum-transfer arthritis were induced in wild-type (WT) and miR-155-deficient (miR-155(-/-) ) mice. The severity of arthritis was determined clinically and histologically. Anticollagen antibodies and cytokines were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The cellular composition of the draining lymph nodes after induction of CIA was measured by flow cytometry. RESULTS: The miR-155(-/-) mice did not develop CIA. Deficiency in miR-155 prevented the generation of pathogenic autoreactive B and T cells, since anticollagen antibodies and the expression levels of antigen-specific T cells were strongly reduced in miR-155(-/-) mice. Moreover, Th17 polarization of miR-155(-/-) mouse T cells was impaired, as shown by a significant decrease in the levels of interleukin-17 (IL-17) and IL-22. In the K/BxN serum-transfer arthritis model, which only depends on innate effector mechanisms, miR-155(-/-) mice showed significantly reduced local bone destruction, attributed to reduced generation of osteoclasts, although the severity of joint inflammation was similar to that in WT mice. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that miR-155 is essentially involved in the adaptive and innate immune reactions leading to autoimmune arthritis, and therefore miR-155 might provide a novel target for the treatment of patients with RA.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a new class of regulatory elements. Altered expression of miRNA has been demonstrated in the inflamed joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim of this study was to examine the role of miRNA in the pathogenesis of autoimmune arthritis, using 2 murine models. METHODS: Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and K/BxN serum-transfer arthritis were induced in wild-type (WT) and miR-155-deficient (miR-155(-/-) ) mice. The severity of arthritis was determined clinically and histologically. Anticollagen antibodies and cytokines were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The cellular composition of the draining lymph nodes after induction of CIA was measured by flow cytometry. RESULTS: The miR-155(-/-) mice did not develop CIA. Deficiency in miR-155 prevented the generation of pathogenic autoreactive B and T cells, since anticollagen antibodies and the expression levels of antigen-specific T cells were strongly reduced in miR-155(-/-) mice. Moreover, Th17 polarization of miR-155(-/-) mouse T cells was impaired, as shown by a significant decrease in the levels of interleukin-17 (IL-17) and IL-22. In the K/BxN serum-transfer arthritis model, which only depends on innate effector mechanisms, miR-155(-/-) mice showed significantly reduced local bone destruction, attributed to reduced generation of osteoclasts, although the severity of joint inflammation was similar to that in WT mice. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that miR-155 is essentially involved in the adaptive and innate immune reactions leading to autoimmune arthritis, and therefore miR-155 might provide a novel target for the treatment of patients with RA.

Bogunia-Kubik, K., B. Wysoczanska, et al. (2016). "Significance of Polymorphism and Expression of miR-146a and NFkB1 Genetic Variants in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis." Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz) 64(Suppl 1): 131-136. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been shown to play an important role in the regulation of inflammatory innate immune responses, and found to be differentially expressed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Through NF-kappaB pathway, this molecule is able to stimulate the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-17. It has been also suggested that single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNA sequences may alter miRNA expression and that miR-146a rs2910164 SNP may contribute to RA development. These observations prompted us to analyze the potential associations between the miR-146a-3p (rs2910164, G > C) and NFkB1 (rs28362491, ins/del ATTG) polymorphisms and miR-146a-5p expression in patients' sera in relation to clinical outcome of the treatment as well as predisposition to RA. Genotyping was performed in 111 patients and 130 healthy individuals while 16 controls and 13 RA patients (before and after three months of therapy with TNF-alpha inhibitors (TNFi)) were studied for the circulating miR-146a-5p serum expression level. Patients carrying the NFkB1 ins/ins genotype were characterized by worse response to TNFi treatment (p = 0.023). In patients, before TNFi therapy, expression levels of miR-146a-5p were less (0.422 +/- 0.171) as compared to those detected after three months of treatment (1.809 +/- 0.658, p = 0.033) and observed for healthy controls (5.302 +/- 2.112, p = 0.048). Moreover, patients with higher circulating miR-146a-5p levels after three months of TNFi administration were more frequently carrying the rs2910164-C allele (p = 0.032). These results support the hypothesis that miR-146a might be involved in pathogenesis of RA and imply that miR-146a-3p polymorphism may be associated with miR-146a-5p levels in serum after anti-TNF-alpha treatment.. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been shown to play an important role in the regulation of inflammatory innate immune responses, and found to be differentially expressed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Through NF-kappaB pathway, this molecule is able to stimulate the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-17. It has been also suggested that single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNA sequences may alter miRNA expression and that miR-146a rs2910164 SNP may contribute to RA development. These observations prompted us to analyze the potential associations between the miR-146a-3p (rs2910164, G > C) and NFkB1 (rs28362491, ins/del ATTG) polymorphisms and miR-146a-5p expression in patients' sera in relation to clinical outcome of the treatment as well as predisposition to RA. Genotyping was performed in 111 patients and 130 healthy individuals while 16 controls and 13 RA patients (before and after three months of therapy with TNF-alpha inhibitors (TNFi)) were studied for the circulating miR-146a-5p serum expression level. Patients carrying the NFkB1 ins/ins genotype were characterized by worse response to TNFi treatment (p = 0.023). In patients, before TNFi therapy, expression levels of miR-146a-5p were less (0.422 +/- 0.171) as compared to those detected after three months of treatment (1.809 +/- 0.658, p = 0.033) and observed for healthy controls (5.302 +/- 2.112, p = 0.048). Moreover, patients with higher circulating miR-146a-5p levels after three months of TNFi administration were more frequently carrying the rs2910164-C allele (p = 0.032). These results support the hypothesis that miR-146a might be involved in pathogenesis of RA and imply that miR-146a-3p polymorphism may be associated with miR-146a-5p levels in serum after anti-TNF-alpha treatment.

Bottini, N. and G. S. Firestein (2013). "Epigenetics in rheumatoid arthritis: a primer for rheumatologists." Curr Rheumatol Rep 15(11): 372. Epigenetic anomalies are emerging as key pathogenic features of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The effect of epigenetics in RA ranges from contributing to complex disease mechanisms to identifying biomarkers for early diagnosis and response to therapy. This review focuses on three key epigenetic areas in RA, namely DNA methylation, histone modification, and expression and/or function of microRNAs. Epigenomics studies of DNA methylation have identified alterations of genome-wide DNA methylation in cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Histone modification studies have focused on histone acetylation, which tends to be increased in RA. Preclinical studies show that inhibitors of histone deacetylases are effective in cellular and animal models of RA. Genome-wide and candidate microRNA surveys identified increased or reduced expression of selected microRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis. These microRNA are either pro or anti-inflammatory in multiple cell types or affect osteoclast physiology and the pathogenesis of bone erosion. Defining epigenetic contributions to the pathogenesis of RA, especially in combination with understanding genetic associations, could lead to novel therapy and a clearer understanding of disease risk.. Epigenetic anomalies are emerging as key pathogenic features of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The effect of epigenetics in RA ranges from contributing to complex disease mechanisms to identifying biomarkers for early diagnosis and response to therapy. This review focuses on three key epigenetic areas in RA, namely DNA methylation, histone modification, and expression and/or function of microRNAs. Epigenomics studies of DNA methylation have identified alterations of genome-wide DNA methylation in cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Histone modification studies have focused on histone acetylation, which tends to be increased in RA. Preclinical studies show that inhibitors of histone deacetylases are effective in cellular and animal models of RA. Genome-wide and candidate microRNA surveys identified increased or reduced expression of selected microRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis. These microRNA are either pro or anti-inflammatory in multiple cell types or affect osteoclast physiology and the pathogenesis of bone erosion. Defining epigenetic contributions to the pathogenesis of RA, especially in combination with understanding genetic associations, could lead to novel therapy and a clearer understanding of disease risk.

Bullerdiek, J. and I. Flor (2012). "Exosome-delivered microRNAs of "chromosome 19 microRNA cluster" as immunomodulators in pregnancy and tumorigenesis." Mol Cytogenet 5(1): 27. BACKGROUND: Structural rearrangements of chromosomal band 19q13 are a non-random cytogenetic abnormality in thyroid adenomas and adenomatous goiters and lead to an expression of miRNAs of the chromosome 19 microRNA cluster C19MC. Normally, expression of these miRNAs is silenced except for embryonic stem cells and the placenta where they represent the majority of miRNAs not only in the trophoblast but also in exosomes derived from it. PRESENTATION OF THE HYPOTHESIS: We have advanced the hypothesis that as part of the feto-maternal communication miRNAs of C19MC serve immunomodulatory functions in the placenta and confer a growth advantage to thyroid nodules by protecting them against autoimmune attacks. More precisely, the exosomes containing these miRNAs may specifically target immune cells in their local environment as well as systemically by transferring their cargo to recipient cells. Within these target cells the transferred miRNAs can interact with mRNAs of the recipient cells thereby suppressing their immune-specific functions. TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS: Experiments used to demonstrate the immunomodulatory capacity of placenta-derived exosomes can be modified by transfecting the target cells with those miRNAs of C19MC represented in placental exosomes. IMPLICATIONS OF THE HYPOTHESIS: Mimics of C19MC-derived miRNAs might develop to useful drug candidates for the treatment of autoimmune disease as e.g. rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren's syndrome and for the prevention of transplant rejection. In case of tumor entities with elevated expression of C19MC miRNAs these miRNAs may be interesting targets for treatment with appropriate antagonists.. BACKGROUND: Structural rearrangements of chromosomal band 19q13 are a non-random cytogenetic abnormality in thyroid adenomas and adenomatous goiters and lead to an expression of miRNAs of the chromosome 19 microRNA cluster C19MC. Normally, expression of these miRNAs is silenced except for embryonic stem cells and the placenta where they represent the majority of miRNAs not only in the trophoblast but also in exosomes derived from it. PRESENTATION OF THE HYPOTHESIS: We have advanced the hypothesis that as part of the feto-maternal communication miRNAs of C19MC serve immunomodulatory functions in the placenta and confer a growth advantage to thyroid nodules by protecting them against autoimmune attacks. More precisely, the exosomes containing these miRNAs may specifically target immune cells in their local environment as well as systemically by transferring their cargo to recipient cells. Within these target cells the transferred miRNAs can interact with mRNAs of the recipient cells thereby suppressing their immune-specific functions. TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS: Experiments used to demonstrate the immunomodulatory capacity of placenta-derived exosomes can be modified by transfecting the target cells with those miRNAs of C19MC represented in placental exosomes. IMPLICATIONS OF THE HYPOTHESIS: Mimics of C19MC-derived miRNAs might develop to useful drug candidates for the treatment of autoimmune disease as e.g. rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren's syndrome and for the prevention of transplant rejection. In case of tumor entities with elevated expression of C19MC miRNAs these miRNAs may be interesting targets for treatment with appropriate antagonists.

Carlsen, A. L., A. J. Schetter, et al. (2013). "Circulating microRNA expression profiles associated with systemic lupus erythematosus." Arthritis Rheum 65(5): 1324-1334. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the specificity of expression patterns of cell-free circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). METHODS: Total RNA was purified from plasma, and 45 different specific, mature miRNAs were determined using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assays. A total of 409 plasma samples were obtained from 364 different patients with SLE, healthy control subjects, and control subjects with other autoimmune diseases. The results in the primary cohort of 62 patients with SLE and 29 healthy control subjects were validated in 2 independent cohorts: a validation cohort comprising 68 patients with SLE and 68 healthy control subjects, and a disease control cohort comprising 20 patients with SLE (19 of whom were from the other validation cohort), 46 healthy control subjects, 38 patients with vasculitis, 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and 20 immunosuppressed patients. RESULTS: Seven miRNAs were statistically significantly differentially expressed in plasma from patients with SLE. The expression of miRNA-142-3p (miR-142-3p) and miR-181a was increased, and the expression of miR-106a, miR-17, miR-20a, miR-203, and miR-92a was decreased. In addition, the expression of miR-342-3p, miR-223, and miR-20a was significantly decreased in SLE patients with active nephritis. A predictive model for SLE based on 2 or 4 miRNAs differentiated patients with SLE from control subjects (76% accuracy) when validated independently (P < 2 x 10(-9) ). Use of the 4-miRNA model provided highly significant differentiation between the SLE group and disease controls, except for those with vasculitis. CONCLUSION: Circulating miRNAs are systematically altered in SLE. A 4-miRNA signature was diagnostic of SLE, and a specific subset of miRNA profiles was associated with nephritis. All of the signature miRNAs target genes in the transforming growth factor beta signaling pathways. Other targets include regulation of apoptosis, cytokine-cytokine receptors, T cell development, and cytoskeletal organization. These findings highlight possible dysregulated pathways in SLE and suggest that circulating miRNA patterns distinguish SLE from other immunoinflammatory phenotypes.. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the specificity of expression patterns of cell-free circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). METHODS: Total RNA was purified from plasma, and 45 different specific, mature miRNAs were determined using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assays. A total of 409 plasma samples were obtained from 364 different patients with SLE, healthy control subjects, and control subjects with other autoimmune diseases. The results in the primary cohort of 62 patients with SLE and 29 healthy control subjects were validated in 2 independent cohorts: a validation cohort comprising 68 patients with SLE and 68 healthy control subjects, and a disease control cohort comprising 20 patients with SLE (19 of whom were from the other validation cohort), 46 healthy control subjects, 38 patients with vasculitis, 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and 20 immunosuppressed patients. RESULTS: Seven miRNAs were statistically significantly differentially expressed in plasma from patients with SLE. The expression of miRNA-142-3p (miR-142-3p) and miR-181a was increased, and the expression of miR-106a, miR-17, miR-20a, miR-203, and miR-92a was decreased. In addition, the expression of miR-342-3p, miR-223, and miR-20a was significantly decreased in SLE patients with active nephritis. A predictive model for SLE based on 2 or 4 miRNAs differentiated patients with SLE from control subjects (76% accuracy) when validated independently (P < 2 x 10(-9) ). Use of the 4-miRNA model provided highly significant differentiation between the SLE group and disease controls, except for those with vasculitis. CONCLUSION: Circulating miRNAs are systematically altered in SLE. A 4-miRNA signature was diagnostic of SLE, and a specific subset of miRNA profiles was associated with nephritis. All of the signature miRNAs target genes in the transforming growth factor beta signaling pathways. Other targets include regulation of apoptosis, cytokine-cytokine receptors, T cell development, and cytoskeletal organization. These findings highlight possible dysregulated pathways in SLE and suggest that circulating miRNA patterns distinguish SLE from other immunoinflammatory phenotypes.

Cavaillon, J. M. (2015). "The fiendish behavior of TNF can be counteracted by microRNA." EMBO Mol Med 7(8): 989-991. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a fascinating anti-tumoral cytokine, which plays a key role in orchestrating the fight of innate immunity against infection. Concomitantly, TNF is a major player of the inflammatory response, as illustrated by successful therapeutic strategies targeting TNF in patho logies such as Crohn's diseases, rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis. In mice, TNF is able to induce tissue injuries and lethal shock. In this issue of EMBO Molecular Medicine, Puimege et al (2015) elegantly demonstrated that the lethal shock induced by TNF reflects high levels of its receptor TNFRI as seen in sensitive (Mus musculus), vs. resistant (Mus spretus) mice, where TNFR1 expression is low. They reported that this expression is under the control of a microRNA (miR-511), which itself is induced by glucocorticoids.. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a fascinating anti-tumoral cytokine, which plays a key role in orchestrating the fight of innate immunity against infection. Concomitantly, TNF is a major player of the inflammatory response, as illustrated by successful therapeutic strategies targeting TNF in patho logies such as Crohn's diseases, rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis. In mice, TNF is able to induce tissue injuries and lethal shock. In this issue of EMBO Molecular Medicine, Puimege et al (2015) elegantly demonstrated that the lethal shock induced by TNF reflects high levels of its receptor TNFRI as seen in sensitive (Mus musculus), vs. resistant (Mus spretus) mice, where TNFR1 expression is low. They reported that this expression is under the control of a microRNA (miR-511), which itself is induced by glucocorticoids.

Chan, E. K., A. Ceribelli, et al. (2013). "MicroRNA-146a in autoimmunity and innate immune responses." Ann Rheum Dis 72 Suppl 2: ii90-95. MicroRNA (miRNA) are approximately 22 nucleotide single-stranded RNA that regulate the stability of target messenger RNA by selective binding to specific sites at the 3'-untranslated regions (UTR). This triggers repression in translation and mRNA degradation. It has been estimated that approximately 60% of all mRNA are under the control of miRNA. Among the known hundreds of miRNA, some are considered master regulators controlling either a single or multiple cellular pathways. Some miRNA are known to affect development and cell differentiation, while others are implicated in immunity and autoimmune diseases. A very interesting example is miR-146a, which has been reported to be downregulated in systemic lupus erythematosus and upregulated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Several groups have recently focused their attention on miRNA in the pathogenesis of RA. Interestingly, the expression of miR-146a is upregulated in different cell types and tissues in RA patients. miRNA in RA could also be considered as possible future targets for new therapeutic approaches. This discussion will focus on the current understanding in the function of miR-146a in endotoxin tolerance and cross-tolerance, and how it may contribute to modulate the overproduction of known pathogenic cytokines, such as tumour necrosis factor alpha.. MicroRNA (miRNA) are approximately 22 nucleotide single-stranded RNA that regulate the stability of target messenger RNA by selective binding to specific sites at the 3'-untranslated regions (UTR). This triggers repression in translation and mRNA degradation. It has been estimated that approximately 60% of all mRNA are under the control of miRNA. Among the known hundreds of miRNA, some are considered master regulators controlling either a single or multiple cellular pathways. Some miRNA are known to affect development and cell differentiation, while others are implicated in immunity and autoimmune diseases. A very interesting example is miR-146a, which has been reported to be downregulated in systemic lupus erythematosus and upregulated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Several groups have recently focused their attention on miRNA in the pathogenesis of RA. Interestingly, the expression of miR-146a is upregulated in different cell types and tissues in RA patients. miRNA in RA could also be considered as possible future targets for new therapeutic approaches. This discussion will focus on the current understanding in the function of miR-146a in endotoxin tolerance and cross-tolerance, and how it may contribute to modulate the overproduction of known pathogenic cytokines, such as tumour necrosis factor alpha.

Chan, E. K., M. Satoh, et al. (2009). "Contrast in aberrant microRNA expression in systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis: is microRNA-146 all we need?" Arthritis Rheum 60(4): 912-915. . 
Chatzikyriakidou, A., P. V. Voulgari, et al. (2010). "A polymorphism in the 3'-UTR of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1), a target gene of miR-146a, is associated with rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility." Joint Bone Spine 77(5): 411-413. OBJECTIVES: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disorder with many genetic factors predisposing to disease susceptibility. MicroRNAs are a new discovered class of molecules that participate in post-transcriptional regulation of genes' expression. MicroRNA-146a was found to be increased in synovial fibroblasts, synovial tissue and PBMC from patients with RA. The aim of the present study was to reveal if there is any association of miRNA-146a variant rs2910164 and the two interleukin (IL) 1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK1, a target gene of mir-146a) polymorphisms rs3027898 and rs1059703 with RA predisposition. METHODS: One hundred and thirty-six RA patients and 147 controls were enrolled in the study. RESULTS: Strong statistically significant difference was observed in IRAK1 rs3027898 A > C polymorphism distribution between RA patients and controls (p = 0.044), which was higher comparing the distribution of allele A vs. allele C between the studied groups (p = 0.017). CONCLUSION: This is the first study that addresses association of a variant in a target of miR-146a, IRAK1 gene, with RA susceptibility. Further studies in other ethnic groups of patients could help to understand the extent of the proposed association.. OBJECTIVES: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disorder with many genetic factors predisposing to disease susceptibility. MicroRNAs are a new discovered class of molecules that participate in post-transcriptional regulation of genes' expression. MicroRNA-146a was found to be increased in synovial fibroblasts, synovial tissue and PBMC from patients with RA. The aim of the present study was to reveal if there is any association of miRNA-146a variant rs2910164 and the two interleukin (IL) 1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK1, a target gene of mir-146a) polymorphisms rs3027898 and rs1059703 with RA predisposition. METHODS: One hundred and thirty-six RA patients and 147 controls were enrolled in the study. RESULTS: Strong statistically significant difference was observed in IRAK1 rs3027898 A > C polymorphism distribution between RA patients and controls (p = 0.044), which was higher comparing the distribution of allele A vs. allele C between the studied groups (p = 0.017). CONCLUSION: This is the first study that addresses association of a variant in a target of miR-146a, IRAK1 gene, with RA susceptibility. Further studies in other ethnic groups of patients could help to understand the extent of the proposed association.

Chen, C. Y., L. J. Fuh, et al. (2017). "Enhancement of CCL2 expression and monocyte migration by CCN1 in osteoblasts through inhibiting miR-518a-5p: implication of rheumatoid arthritis therapy." Sci Rep 7(1): 421. Cysteine-rich 61 (Cyr61 or CCN1), a secreted protein from the CCN family, is an important proinflammatory cytokine. Migration and infiltration of mononuclear cells to inflammatory sites play a critical role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2) is the key chemokine that regulates migration and infiltration of monocytes. Here, we examined the role of CCN1 in monocyte migration, and CCL2 expression in osteoblasts. We found higher levels of CCN1 and CCL2 in synovial fluid from RA patients compared with levels from non-RA controls. We also found that the CCN1-induced increase in CCL2 expression is mediated by the MAPK signaling pathway and that miR-518a-5p expression was negatively regulated by CCN1 via the MAPK cascade. In contrast, inhibition of CCN1 expression with lentiviral vectors expressing short hairpin RNA ameliorated articular swelling, cartilage erosion, and infiltration of monocytes in the ankle joints of mice with collagen-induced arthritis. Our study describes how CCN1 promotes monocyte migration by upregulating CCL2 expression in osteoblasts in RA disease. CCN1 could serve as a potential target for RA treatment.. Cysteine-rich 61 (Cyr61 or CCN1), a secreted protein from the CCN family, is an important proinflammatory cytokine. Migration and infiltration of mononuclear cells to inflammatory sites play a critical role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2) is the key chemokine that regulates migration and infiltration of monocytes. Here, we examined the role of CCN1 in monocyte migration, and CCL2 expression in osteoblasts. We found higher levels of CCN1 and CCL2 in synovial fluid from RA patients compared with levels from non-RA controls. We also found that the CCN1-induced increase in CCL2 expression is mediated by the MAPK signaling pathway and that miR-518a-5p expression was negatively regulated by CCN1 via the MAPK cascade. In contrast, inhibition of CCN1 expression with lentiviral vectors expressing short hairpin RNA ameliorated articular swelling, cartilage erosion, and infiltration of monocytes in the ankle joints of mice with collagen-induced arthritis. Our study describes how CCN1 promotes monocyte migration by upregulating CCL2 expression in osteoblasts in RA disease. CCN1 could serve as a potential target for RA treatment.

Chen, C. Y., C. M. Su, et al. (2017). "CCN1 Promotes VEGF Production in Osteoblasts and Induces Endothelial Progenitor Cell Angiogenesis by Inhibiting miR-126 Expression in Rheumatoid Arthritis." J Bone Miner Res 32(1): 34-45. Angiogenesis is the formation of new capillaries from preexisting vasculature. The perpetuation of angiogenesis plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of various disease states including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Cysteine-rich 61 (Cyr61 or CCN1) is an important proinflammatory cytokine in RA. Here, we investigated the role of CCN1 in angiogenesis associated with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production and osteoblasts. We found higher expression of CCN1 and VEGF in synovial fluid from RA patients compared with healthy controls. CCN1 induced VEGF expression in osteoblasts and increased endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) angiogenesis by inhibiting miR-126 via the protein kinase C-alpha (PKC-alpha) signaling pathway. CCN1 knockdown inhibited angiogenesis in both in vitro and in vivo models. Inhibition of CCN1 expression with lentiviral vectors expressing short hairpin RNA (shRNA) ameliorated articular swelling, cartilage erosion, and angiogenesis in the ankle joint of mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). Our study is the first to describe how CCN1 promotes VEGF expression in osteoblasts and increased EPCs angiogenesis in RA disease. CCN1 may serve as a potential target for RA treatment. (c) 2016 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.. Angiogenesis is the formation of new capillaries from preexisting vasculature. The perpetuation of angiogenesis plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of various disease states including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Cysteine-rich 61 (Cyr61 or CCN1) is an important proinflammatory cytokine in RA. Here, we investigated the role of CCN1 in angiogenesis associated with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production and osteoblasts. We found higher expression of CCN1 and VEGF in synovial fluid from RA patients compared with healthy controls. CCN1 induced VEGF expression in osteoblasts and increased endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) angiogenesis by inhibiting miR-126 via the protein kinase C-alpha (PKC-alpha) signaling pathway. CCN1 knockdown inhibited angiogenesis in both in vitro and in vivo models. Inhibition of CCN1 expression with lentiviral vectors expressing short hairpin RNA (shRNA) ameliorated articular swelling, cartilage erosion, and angiogenesis in the ankle joint of mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). Our study is the first to describe how CCN1 promotes VEGF expression in osteoblasts and increased EPCs angiogenesis in RA disease. CCN1 may serve as a potential target for RA treatment. (c) 2016 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

Chen, S. Y. (2014). "MicroRNA-223: a double-edged sword in rheumatoid arthritis." Rheumatol Int 34(2): 285-286. Increased expression of microRNA-223 (miR-223) has been demonstrated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Two research teams focus recently on the underlying mechanisms mediated by miR-223 but two stories are developed in opposite ways.. Increased expression of microRNA-223 (miR-223) has been demonstrated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Two research teams focus recently on the underlying mechanisms mediated by miR-223 but two stories are developed in opposite ways.

Chen, S. Y., M. F. Liu, et al. (2016). "Genetic polymorphism of 3' untranslated region of zeta-chain associated protein kinase 70 kDa in southern Taiwanese patients with rheumatoid arthritis." Clin Rheumatol 35(3): 747-750. T cell activation participates in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and the signaling molecule zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 kDa (ZAP-70) plays a crucial role in this process. Different mutations in the coding sequence of ZAP-70 are involved in a variety of immunological phenotypes, and recent evidence indicates that genetic variations within the 3' untranslated regions (UTR) of microRNA binding sites may affect the hybridization with target mRNAs, leading to phenotype changes with disease status. In this study, we evaluated the possible effect of ZAP-70 polymorphism as a genetic risk factor in RA by examining the single-nucleotide polymorphism in 100 patients and 100 ethnicity- and sex-matched healthy individuals from southern Taiwan. In both groups, the genotype distribution of rs2278699 in the 3' UTR was in the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. In RA, there were higher frequencies of the G allele (15.5 versus 8.0 %, odds ratio 2.1, P = 0.020) and significant differences in the trend of various genotypes (P = 0.024). The results suggest that genetic polymorphism in the 3' UTR of ZAP-70 is associated with RA susceptibility in southern Taiwanese.. T cell activation participates in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and the signaling molecule zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 kDa (ZAP-70) plays a crucial role in this process. Different mutations in the coding sequence of ZAP-70 are involved in a variety of immunological phenotypes, and recent evidence indicates that genetic variations within the 3' untranslated regions (UTR) of microRNA binding sites may affect the hybridization with target mRNAs, leading to phenotype changes with disease status. In this study, we evaluated the possible effect of ZAP-70 polymorphism as a genetic risk factor in RA by examining the single-nucleotide polymorphism in 100 patients and 100 ethnicity- and sex-matched healthy individuals from southern Taiwan. In both groups, the genotype distribution of rs2278699 in the 3' UTR was in the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. In RA, there were higher frequencies of the G allele (15.5 versus 8.0 %, odds ratio 2.1, P = 0.020) and significant differences in the trend of various genotypes (P = 0.024). The results suggest that genetic polymorphism in the 3' UTR of ZAP-70 is associated with RA susceptibility in southern Taiwanese.

Chen, X. M., Q. C. Huang, et al. (2015). "Role of Micro RNAs in the Pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis: Novel Perspectives Based on Review of the Literature." Medicine (Baltimore) 94(31): e1326. The contributions of micro RNAs (miRNAs) to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are beginning to be uncovered during the last decade. Many studies in efforts to use miRNAs as biomarkers in disease diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment are ongoing.We conducted a systematic literature review to reveal the role of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of RA in order to inform future research.We analyzed all the literature which is searched by keywords "microRNA" and "arthritis" in PubMed from December 2007 to June 2015, and the references cited by the articles searched were also considered.Relevant literature focusing on the field of miRNAs and RA was identified. The searching process was conducted by 5 independent investigators. The experts in the field of miRNAs and Rheumatology were involved in the process of analyzing.Relevant literature was analyzed according to the objective of this review and the availability of full text.The crucial role of miRNAs in maintaining immune and inflammatory responses is revealed. In addition, it is now clear that miRNAs are implicated in the development of RA synovial phenotype including synovial hyperplasia and joint destruction. Intriguingly, the biomedical application of several miRNAs may result in the effects of "double-edged sword." Moreover, there appears to have a feedback loop for expression of some miRNAs related to disease activity in inflammatory milieu of rheumatoid joint.This review underscores the potential importance of miRNAs to diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of RA. Further investigations are required to identify the unique miRNAs signatures in RA and characterize the mechanisms mediated by miRNAs in the pathology of RA.. The contributions of micro RNAs (miRNAs) to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are beginning to be uncovered during the last decade. Many studies in efforts to use miRNAs as biomarkers in disease diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment are ongoing.We conducted a systematic literature review to reveal the role of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of RA in order to inform future research.We analyzed all the literature which is searched by keywords "microRNA" and "arthritis" in PubMed from December 2007 to June 2015, and the references cited by the articles searched were also considered.Relevant literature focusing on the field of miRNAs and RA was identified. The searching process was conducted by 5 independent investigators. The experts in the field of miRNAs and Rheumatology were involved in the process of analyzing.Relevant literature was analyzed according to the objective of this review and the availability of full text.The crucial role of miRNAs in maintaining immune and inflammatory responses is revealed. In addition, it is now clear that miRNAs are implicated in the development of RA synovial phenotype including synovial hyperplasia and joint destruction. Intriguingly, the biomedical application of several miRNAs may result in the effects of "double-edged sword." Moreover, there appears to have a feedback loop for expression of some miRNAs related to disease activity in inflammatory milieu of rheumatoid joint.This review underscores the potential importance of miRNAs to diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of RA. Further investigations are required to identify the unique miRNAs signatures in RA and characterize the mechanisms mediated by miRNAs in the pathology of RA.

Chen, Y., X. Wang, et al. (2018). "miR-145-5p Increases Osteoclast Numbers In Vitro and Aggravates Bone Erosion in Collagen-Induced Arthritis by Targeting Osteoprotegerin." Med Sci Monit 24: 5292-5300. BACKGROUND Osteoprotegerin (OPG) inhibits bone resorption and binds with strong affinity to receptor activator of NF kappaB ligand (RANKL), thereby preventing RANKL from binding to its receptor RANK. Osteoclasts have documented effects on bone erosion of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim of this study was to examine the role of miR-145-5p in the regulation of RA osteoclast differentiation and bone erosion. MATERIAL AND METHODS Expression of microRNA-145-5p in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and synovial tissue was assayed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). OPG, RANK, and RANKL expression in RAW-264.7 cells was examined by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Osteoclast formation was detected by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) staining. The effect of miR-145-5p on predicted target mRNAs was examined by luciferase reporter assays. Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) was induced by injecting DBA/1 mice with bovine type II collagen (CII), and miR-145-5p agomir was administered by intravenous injection. Morphological changes in the CIA joint were assessed by micro-computed tomography (CT) and histopathology. RESULTS miR-145-5p levels significantly increased in RA PBMC and synovial tissue compared with normal PBMC and osteoarthritis (OA) tissue. After transfection of RAW-264.7 cells with miR-145-5p, RANK and RANKL expression increased significantly, while OPG expression decreased significantly. TRAP staining results showed osteoclast numbers increased. Micro-CT analysis of the arthritic joints showed that the miR-145-5p agomir caused bone erosion in mice, and histopathological analysis revealed that miR-145-5p agomir aggravates cartilage erosion. CONCLUSIONS Our findings indicate that administration of miR-145-5p aggravates joint erosion in CIA mice. This suggests that miR-145-5p is a potential target for the treatment of RA.. BACKGROUND Osteoprotegerin (OPG) inhibits bone resorption and binds with strong affinity to receptor activator of NF kappaB ligand (RANKL), thereby preventing RANKL from binding to its receptor RANK. Osteoclasts have documented effects on bone erosion of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim of this study was to examine the role of miR-145-5p in the regulation of RA osteoclast differentiation and bone erosion. MATERIAL AND METHODS Expression of microRNA-145-5p in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and synovial tissue was assayed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). OPG, RANK, and RANKL expression in RAW-264.7 cells was examined by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Osteoclast formation was detected by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) staining. The effect of miR-145-5p on predicted target mRNAs was examined by luciferase reporter assays. Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) was induced by injecting DBA/1 mice with bovine type II collagen (CII), and miR-145-5p agomir was administered by intravenous injection. Morphological changes in the CIA joint were assessed by micro-computed tomography (CT) and histopathology. RESULTS miR-145-5p levels significantly increased in RA PBMC and synovial tissue compared with normal PBMC and osteoarthritis (OA) tissue. After transfection of RAW-264.7 cells with miR-145-5p, RANK and RANKL expression increased significantly, while OPG expression decreased significantly. TRAP staining results showed osteoclast numbers increased. Micro-CT analysis of the arthritic joints showed that the miR-145-5p agomir caused bone erosion in mice, and histopathological analysis revealed that miR-145-5p agomir aggravates cartilage erosion. CONCLUSIONS Our findings indicate that administration of miR-145-5p aggravates joint erosion in CIA mice. This suggests that miR-145-5p is a potential target for the treatment of RA.

Chen, Y., P. F. Xian, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-21 Promotes Proliferation of Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes through Mediation of NF-kappaB Nuclear Translocation in a Rat Model of Collagen-Induced Rheumatoid Arthritis." Biomed Res Int 2016: 9279078. MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) is overexpressed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study was designed to investigate the effect and mechanism of miR-21 on cell proliferation in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) of RA. FLS were primary-cultured from a rat RA model. RA-FLS and normal FLS were infected with lentivirus (anti-miR-21 or pro-miR-21) for overexpression or downregulation of miR-21, respectively. The effects of miR-21 overexpression or inhibition on nucleoprotein NF-kappaB levels and FLS cell proliferation were evaluated by western blotting and MTT assays. The effects of an inhibitor of NF-kappaB nuclear translocation (BAY 11-7082) were also evaluated. The results showed that the levels of miR-21 and nucleoprotein NF-kappaB were increased in FLS of RA model rats compared to the control group. Downregulation of miR-21 in RA FLS led to a significant decrease in nucleoprotein NF-kappaB levels and cell proliferation rates compared to the antinegative control (NC) group. However, miR-21 overexpression in normal FLS resulted in a significant increase of nucleoprotein NF-kappaB levels and cell proliferation rates compared to the pro-NC group. The effects of miR-21 overexpression were reversed by BAY 11-7082. We concluded that upregulated miR-21 in FLS in RA model rats may promote cell proliferation by facilitating NF-kappaB nuclear translocation, thus affecting the NF-kappaB pathway.. MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) is overexpressed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study was designed to investigate the effect and mechanism of miR-21 on cell proliferation in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) of RA. FLS were primary-cultured from a rat RA model. RA-FLS and normal FLS were infected with lentivirus (anti-miR-21 or pro-miR-21) for overexpression or downregulation of miR-21, respectively. The effects of miR-21 overexpression or inhibition on nucleoprotein NF-kappaB levels and FLS cell proliferation were evaluated by western blotting and MTT assays. The effects of an inhibitor of NF-kappaB nuclear translocation (BAY 11-7082) were also evaluated. The results showed that the levels of miR-21 and nucleoprotein NF-kappaB were increased in FLS of RA model rats compared to the control group. Downregulation of miR-21 in RA FLS led to a significant decrease in nucleoprotein NF-kappaB levels and cell proliferation rates compared to the antinegative control (NC) group. However, miR-21 overexpression in normal FLS resulted in a significant increase of nucleoprotein NF-kappaB levels and cell proliferation rates compared to the pro-NC group. The effects of miR-21 overexpression were reversed by BAY 11-7082. We concluded that upregulated miR-21 in FLS in RA model rats may promote cell proliferation by facilitating NF-kappaB nuclear translocation, thus affecting the NF-kappaB pathway.

Chen, Y. J., W. A. Chang, et al. (2017). "Deduction of Novel Genes Potentially Involved in Osteoblasts of Rheumatoid Arthritis Using Next-Generation Sequencing and Bioinformatic Approaches." Int J Mol Sci 18(11)The role of osteoblasts in peri-articular bone loss and bone erosion in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has gained much attention, and microRNAs are hypothesized to play critical roles in the regulation of osteoblast function in RA. The aim of this study is to explore novel microRNAs differentially expressed in RA osteoblasts and to identify genes potentially involved in the dysregulated bone homeostasis in RA. RNAs were extracted from cultured normal and RA osteoblasts for sequencing. Using the next generation sequencing and bioinformatics approaches, we identified 35 differentially expressed microRNAs and 13 differentially expressed genes with potential microRNA-mRNA interactions in RA osteoblasts. The 13 candidate genes were involved mainly in cell-matrix adhesion, as classified by the Gene Ontology. Two genes of interest identified from RA osteoblasts, A-kinase anchoring protein 12 (AKAP12) and leucin rich repeat containing 15 (LRRC15), were found to express more consistently in the related RA synovial tissue arrays in the Gene Expression Omnibus database, with the predicted interactions with miR-183-5p and miR-146a-5p, respectively. The Ingenuity Pathway Analysis identified AKAP12 as one of the genes involved in protein kinase A signaling and the function of chemotaxis, interconnecting with molecules related to neovascularization. The findings indicate new candidate genes as the potential indicators in evaluating therapies targeting chemotaxis and neovascularization to control joint destruction in RA.. The role of osteoblasts in peri-articular bone loss and bone erosion in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has gained much attention, and microRNAs are hypothesized to play critical roles in the regulation of osteoblast function in RA. The aim of this study is to explore novel microRNAs differentially expressed in RA osteoblasts and to identify genes potentially involved in the dysregulated bone homeostasis in RA. RNAs were extracted from cultured normal and RA osteoblasts for sequencing. Using the next generation sequencing and bioinformatics approaches, we identified 35 differentially expressed microRNAs and 13 differentially expressed genes with potential microRNA-mRNA interactions in RA osteoblasts. The 13 candidate genes were involved mainly in cell-matrix adhesion, as classified by the Gene Ontology. Two genes of interest identified from RA osteoblasts, A-kinase anchoring protein 12 (AKAP12) and leucin rich repeat containing 15 (LRRC15), were found to express more consistently in the related RA synovial tissue arrays in the Gene Expression Omnibus database, with the predicted interactions with miR-183-5p and miR-146a-5p, respectively. The Ingenuity Pathway Analysis identified AKAP12 as one of the genes involved in protein kinase A signaling and the function of chemotaxis, interconnecting with molecules related to neovascularization. The findings indicate new candidate genes as the potential indicators in evaluating therapies targeting chemotaxis and neovascularization to control joint destruction in RA.

Chen, Y. J., W. A. Chang, et al. (2018). "Systematic Analysis of Differential Expression Profile in Rheumatoid Arthritis Chondrocytes Using Next-Generation Sequencing and Bioinformatics Approaches." Int J Med Sci 15(11): 1129-1142. Cartilage destruction in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) occurs primarily in the pannus-cartilage interface. The close contact of the synovium-cartilage interface implicates crosstalk between synovial fibroblasts and chondrocytes. The aim of this study is to explore the differentially expressed genes and novel microRNA regulations potentially implicated in the dysregulated cartilage homeostasis in joint destruction of RA. Total RNAs were extracted from human primary cultured normal and RA chondrocytes for RNA and small RNA expression profiling using next-generation sequencing. Using systematic bioinformatics analyses, we identified 463 differentially expressed genes in RA chondrocytes were enriched in biological functions related to altered cell cycle process, inflammatory response and hypoxic stimulation. Moreover, fibroblast growth factor 9 (FGF9), kynureninase (KYNU), and regulator of cell cycle (RGCC) were among the top dysregulated genes identified to be potentially affected in the RA joint microenvironment, having similar expression patterns observed in arrays of clinical RA synovial tissues from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Additionally, among the 31 differentially expressed microRNAs and 10 candidate genes with potential microRNA-mRNA interactions in RA chondrocytes, the novel miR-140-3p-FGF9 interaction was validated in different microRNA prediction databases, and proposed to participate in the pathogenesis of joint destruction through dysregulated cell growth in RA. The findings provide new perspectives for target genes in the management of cartilage destruction in RA.. Cartilage destruction in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) occurs primarily in the pannus-cartilage interface. The close contact of the synovium-cartilage interface implicates crosstalk between synovial fibroblasts and chondrocytes. The aim of this study is to explore the differentially expressed genes and novel microRNA regulations potentially implicated in the dysregulated cartilage homeostasis in joint destruction of RA. Total RNAs were extracted from human primary cultured normal and RA chondrocytes for RNA and small RNA expression profiling using next-generation sequencing. Using systematic bioinformatics analyses, we identified 463 differentially expressed genes in RA chondrocytes were enriched in biological functions related to altered cell cycle process, inflammatory response and hypoxic stimulation. Moreover, fibroblast growth factor 9 (FGF9), kynureninase (KYNU), and regulator of cell cycle (RGCC) were among the top dysregulated genes identified to be potentially affected in the RA joint microenvironment, having similar expression patterns observed in arrays of clinical RA synovial tissues from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Additionally, among the 31 differentially expressed microRNAs and 10 candidate genes with potential microRNA-mRNA interactions in RA chondrocytes, the novel miR-140-3p-FGF9 interaction was validated in different microRNA prediction databases, and proposed to participate in the pathogenesis of joint destruction through dysregulated cell growth in RA. The findings provide new perspectives for target genes in the management of cartilage destruction in RA.

Chen, Z. Z., X. D. Zhang, et al. (2017). "The role of circulating miR-146a in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated by Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F." Medicine (Baltimore) 96(20): e6775. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is polygenic autoimmune disease with unclear etiology. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in the pathogenesis of RA. The objective of this study was to evaluate the role of miR-146a in patients with RA receiving Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TwHF) treatment.In total, 69 patients with RA and 69 healthy controls (HC) were included in the study, and patients with RA received TwHF treatment for 24 weeks. Blood samples were collected from RA patients and HC, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated. Expression of miR-146a was analyzed in RA patients (baseline, 12 weeks and 24 weeks) and HC.Circulating miR-146a expression was markedly increased in patients with RA compared with healthy controls (P < .001), ROC analysis of miR-146a for diagnosis for RA showed that the AUC was 0.908 (95% CI: 0.862-0.955) with a sensitivity of 87.0% and a specificity of 82.6% at best cutoff. And miR-146a expression was positively associated with the DAS28 score and CRP level (P = .002 and P = .019). Moreover, miR-146a expression was markedly reduced after TwHF therapy (P < .001), and baseline miR-146a level was observed to present an increased tendency in responders compared with non-responders at 24 weeks (P = .066).Our study presented that circulating miR-146a level was correlated with risk and disease activity of RA patients by TwHF treatment, which could strikingly decrease expression of miR-146a in RA patients, and miR-146a may have a value in predicting clinical response of TwHF treatment. It indicates that circulating miR-146a plays a prominent role in RA patients treated by TwHF.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is polygenic autoimmune disease with unclear etiology. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in the pathogenesis of RA. The objective of this study was to evaluate the role of miR-146a in patients with RA receiving Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TwHF) treatment.In total, 69 patients with RA and 69 healthy controls (HC) were included in the study, and patients with RA received TwHF treatment for 24 weeks. Blood samples were collected from RA patients and HC, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated. Expression of miR-146a was analyzed in RA patients (baseline, 12 weeks and 24 weeks) and HC.Circulating miR-146a expression was markedly increased in patients with RA compared with healthy controls (P < .001), ROC analysis of miR-146a for diagnosis for RA showed that the AUC was 0.908 (95% CI: 0.862-0.955) with a sensitivity of 87.0% and a specificity of 82.6% at best cutoff. And miR-146a expression was positively associated with the DAS28 score and CRP level (P = .002 and P = .019). Moreover, miR-146a expression was markedly reduced after TwHF therapy (P < .001), and baseline miR-146a level was observed to present an increased tendency in responders compared with non-responders at 24 weeks (P = .066).Our study presented that circulating miR-146a level was correlated with risk and disease activity of RA patients by TwHF treatment, which could strikingly decrease expression of miR-146a in RA patients, and miR-146a may have a value in predicting clinical response of TwHF treatment. It indicates that circulating miR-146a plays a prominent role in RA patients treated by TwHF.

Ciancio, G., M. Ferracin, et al. (2017). "Characterisation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell microRNA in early onset psoriatic arthritis." Clin Exp Rheumatol 35(1): 113-121. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the micro-RNA (miRNA) expression profile in patients with early psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in order to assess the role of miRNAs as potential PsA biomarkers. METHODS: The expression of 723 mature miRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of early PsA patients in comparison with early-rheumatoid arthritis (ERA) patients and healthy controls (HC) was evaluated using a miRNA microarray. All patients had active disease and were naive from treatment. The results were validated for a specific miRNA (miR-21-5p) in the entire series of patients plus an additional group of early PsA, ERA and HC using droplet digital PCR. RESULTS: In PsA, microarray analysis revealed a distinct pattern of 19 (vs. HC) and 48 (vs. ERA) deregulated miRNAs (p<0.05). The significant up-regulation of miR-21-5p both in early PsA and in ERA in comparison with HC was validated and confirmed. In PsA, miR-21-5p was found significantly down regulated after 12 weeks of therapy, which significantly correlated with the reduction of DAPSA score. CONCLUSIONS: In early PsA, a 19- (vs. HC) and 48- (vs. ERA) miRNA signature was identified. A differential expression of miRNAs in patients with active disease makes them attractive biomarkers of psoriatic disease. MiR-21-5p was found up-regulated both in early PsA and ERA, a finding which highlights its role in the inflammatory process in general and its potential role as a therapeutic target in different inflammatory disorders. A potential role of miR-21-5p as a response to treatment biomarker in early PsA has been identified.. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the micro-RNA (miRNA) expression profile in patients with early psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in order to assess the role of miRNAs as potential PsA biomarkers. METHODS: The expression of 723 mature miRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of early PsA patients in comparison with early-rheumatoid arthritis (ERA) patients and healthy controls (HC) was evaluated using a miRNA microarray. All patients had active disease and were naive from treatment. The results were validated for a specific miRNA (miR-21-5p) in the entire series of patients plus an additional group of early PsA, ERA and HC using droplet digital PCR. RESULTS: In PsA, microarray analysis revealed a distinct pattern of 19 (vs. HC) and 48 (vs. ERA) deregulated miRNAs (p<0.05). The significant up-regulation of miR-21-5p both in early PsA and in ERA in comparison with HC was validated and confirmed. In PsA, miR-21-5p was found significantly down regulated after 12 weeks of therapy, which significantly correlated with the reduction of DAPSA score. CONCLUSIONS: In early PsA, a 19- (vs. HC) and 48- (vs. ERA) miRNA signature was identified. A differential expression of miRNAs in patients with active disease makes them attractive biomarkers of psoriatic disease. MiR-21-5p was found up-regulated both in early PsA and ERA, a finding which highlights its role in the inflammatory process in general and its potential role as a therapeutic target in different inflammatory disorders. A potential role of miR-21-5p as a response to treatment biomarker in early PsA has been identified.

Ciccacci, C., P. Conigliaro, et al. (2016). "Polymorphisms in STAT-4, IL-10, PSORS1C1, PTPN2 and MIR146A genes are associated differently with prognostic factors in Italian patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis." Clin Exp Immunol 186(2): 157-163. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease resulting in chronic inflammation of the synovium and consequent cartilage and bone erosion. RA is associated strongly with the presence of rheumatoid factor (RF), and consists of clinical subsets of anti-citrullinated protein antibody (ACPA)-positive and -negative patients. This study was designed to evaluate whether relevant single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with RA and other autoimmune disorders are related to RF, ACPA and clinical phenotype in a cohort of biologic drugs naive Italian RA patients; 192 RA patients and 278 age-matched healthy controls were included. Clinical and laboratory data were registered. We analysed a total of 12 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in signal transducer and activator of transcription-4 (STAT-4), interleukin (IL)-10, psoriasis susceptibility 1 candidate 1 (PSORS1C1), protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 2 (PTPN2), endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1), tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated 3 interacting protein 2 (TRAF3IP2) and microRNA 146a (MIR146A) genes by allelic discrimination assays. Case-control association studies and genotype/phenotype correlation analyses were performed. A higher risk to develop RA was observed for rs7574865 in the STAT-4 gene, while the rs1800872 in the IL-10 gene showed a protective effect. The presence of RF was associated significantly with rs1800872 variant in IL-10, while rs2910164 in MIR146A was protective. ACPA were associated significantly with rs7574865 in STAT-4. The SNP rs2233945 in the PSORS1C1 gene was protective regarding the presence of bone erosions, while rs2542151 in PTPN2 gene was associated with joint damage. Our results confirm that polymorphisms in STAT-4 and IL-10 genes confer susceptibility to RA. For the first time, we described that SNPs in PSORS1C1, PTPN2 and MIR146A genes were associated differently with a severe disease phenotype in terms of autoantibody status and radiographic damage in an Italian RA population.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease resulting in chronic inflammation of the synovium and consequent cartilage and bone erosion. RA is associated strongly with the presence of rheumatoid factor (RF), and consists of clinical subsets of anti-citrullinated protein antibody (ACPA)-positive and -negative patients. This study was designed to evaluate whether relevant single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with RA and other autoimmune disorders are related to RF, ACPA and clinical phenotype in a cohort of biologic drugs naive Italian RA patients; 192 RA patients and 278 age-matched healthy controls were included. Clinical and laboratory data were registered. We analysed a total of 12 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in signal transducer and activator of transcription-4 (STAT-4), interleukin (IL)-10, psoriasis susceptibility 1 candidate 1 (PSORS1C1), protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 2 (PTPN2), endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1), tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated 3 interacting protein 2 (TRAF3IP2) and microRNA 146a (MIR146A) genes by allelic discrimination assays. Case-control association studies and genotype/phenotype correlation analyses were performed. A higher risk to develop RA was observed for rs7574865 in the STAT-4 gene, while the rs1800872 in the IL-10 gene showed a protective effect. The presence of RF was associated significantly with rs1800872 variant in IL-10, while rs2910164 in MIR146A was protective. ACPA were associated significantly with rs7574865 in STAT-4. The SNP rs2233945 in the PSORS1C1 gene was protective regarding the presence of bone erosions, while rs2542151 in PTPN2 gene was associated with joint damage. Our results confirm that polymorphisms in STAT-4 and IL-10 genes confer susceptibility to RA. For the first time, we described that SNPs in PSORS1C1, PTPN2 and MIR146A genes were associated differently with a severe disease phenotype in terms of autoantibody status and radiographic damage in an Italian RA population.

Clark, P. M., N. Dawany, et al. (2012). "Bioinformatics analysis reveals transcriptome and microRNA signatures and drug repositioning targets for IBD and other autoimmune diseases." Inflamm Bowel Dis 18(12): 2315-2333. BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a complex disorder involving pathogen infection, host immune response, and altered enterocyte physiology. Incidences of IBD are increasing at an alarming rate in developed countries, warranting a detailed molecular portrait of IBD. METHODS: We used large-scale data, bioinformatics tools, and high-throughput computations to obtain gene and microRNA signatures for Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). These signatures were then integrated with systemic literature review to draw a comprehensive portrait of IBD in relation to autoimmune diseases. RESULTS: The top upregulated genes in IBD are associated with diabetogenesis (REG1A, REG1B), bacterial signals (TLRs, NLRs), innate immunity (DEFA6, IDO1, EXOSC1), inflammation (CXCLs), and matrix degradation (MMPs). The downregulated genes coded tight junction proteins (CLDN8), solute transporters (SLCs), and adhesion proteins. Genes highly expressed in UC compared to CD included antiinflammatory ANXA1, transporter ABCA12, T-cell activator HSH2D, and immunoglobulin IGHV4-34. Compromised metabolisms for processing of drugs, nitrogen, androgen and estrogen, and lipids in IBD correlated with an increase in specific microRNA. Highly expressed IBD genes constituted targets of drugs used in gastrointestinal cancers, viral infections, and autoimmunity disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and asthma. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents a clinically relevant gene-level portrait of IBD subtypes and their connectivity to autoimmune diseases. The study identified candidates for repositioning of existing drugs to manage IBD. Integration of mice and human data point to an altered B-cell response as a cause for upregulation of genes in IBD involved in other aspects of immune defense such as interferon-inducible responses.. BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a complex disorder involving pathogen infection, host immune response, and altered enterocyte physiology. Incidences of IBD are increasing at an alarming rate in developed countries, warranting a detailed molecular portrait of IBD. METHODS: We used large-scale data, bioinformatics tools, and high-throughput computations to obtain gene and microRNA signatures for Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). These signatures were then integrated with systemic literature review to draw a comprehensive portrait of IBD in relation to autoimmune diseases. RESULTS: The top upregulated genes in IBD are associated with diabetogenesis (REG1A, REG1B), bacterial signals (TLRs, NLRs), innate immunity (DEFA6, IDO1, EXOSC1), inflammation (CXCLs), and matrix degradation (MMPs). The downregulated genes coded tight junction proteins (CLDN8), solute transporters (SLCs), and adhesion proteins. Genes highly expressed in UC compared to CD included antiinflammatory ANXA1, transporter ABCA12, T-cell activator HSH2D, and immunoglobulin IGHV4-34. Compromised metabolisms for processing of drugs, nitrogen, androgen and estrogen, and lipids in IBD correlated with an increase in specific microRNA. Highly expressed IBD genes constituted targets of drugs used in gastrointestinal cancers, viral infections, and autoimmunity disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and asthma. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents a clinically relevant gene-level portrait of IBD subtypes and their connectivity to autoimmune diseases. The study identified candidates for repositioning of existing drugs to manage IBD. Integration of mice and human data point to an altered B-cell response as a cause for upregulation of genes in IBD involved in other aspects of immune defense such as interferon-inducible responses.

Dai, R. and S. A. Ahmed (2011). "MicroRNA, a new paradigm for understanding immunoregulation, inflammation, and autoimmune diseases." Transl Res 157(4): 163-179. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are newly discovered, small, noncoding ribonucleic acids (RNAs) that play critical roles in the regulation of host genome expression at the posttranscriptional level. During last 20 years, miRNAs have emerged as key regulators of various biological processes including immune cell lineage commitment, differentiation, maturation, and maintenance of immune homeostasis and normal function. Thus, it is not surprising that dysregulated miRNA expression patterns now have been documented in a broad range of diseases including cancer as well as inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. This rapidly emerging field has revolutionized our understanding of normal immunoregulation and breakdown of self-tolerance. This review focuses on the current understanding of miRNA biogenesis, the role of miRNAs in the regulation of innate and adaptive immunity, and the association of miRNAs with autoimmune diseases. We have discussed miRNA dysregulation and the potential role of miRNAs in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis. Given that most autoimmune diseases are female-predominant, we also have discussed sex hormone regulation of miRNAs in inflammatory responses, with an emphasis on estrogen, which now has been shown to regulate miRNAs in the immune system. The field of miRNA regulation of mammalian genes has tremendous potential. The identification of specific miRNA expression patterns in autoimmune diseases as well as a comprehensive understanding of the role of miRNA in disease pathogenesis offers promise of not only novel molecular diagnostic markers but also new gene therapy strategies for treating SLE and other inflammatory autoimmune diseases.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are newly discovered, small, noncoding ribonucleic acids (RNAs) that play critical roles in the regulation of host genome expression at the posttranscriptional level. During last 20 years, miRNAs have emerged as key regulators of various biological processes including immune cell lineage commitment, differentiation, maturation, and maintenance of immune homeostasis and normal function. Thus, it is not surprising that dysregulated miRNA expression patterns now have been documented in a broad range of diseases including cancer as well as inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. This rapidly emerging field has revolutionized our understanding of normal immunoregulation and breakdown of self-tolerance. This review focuses on the current understanding of miRNA biogenesis, the role of miRNAs in the regulation of innate and adaptive immunity, and the association of miRNAs with autoimmune diseases. We have discussed miRNA dysregulation and the potential role of miRNAs in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis. Given that most autoimmune diseases are female-predominant, we also have discussed sex hormone regulation of miRNAs in inflammatory responses, with an emphasis on estrogen, which now has been shown to regulate miRNAs in the immune system. The field of miRNA regulation of mammalian genes has tremendous potential. The identification of specific miRNA expression patterns in autoimmune diseases as well as a comprehensive understanding of the role of miRNA in disease pathogenesis offers promise of not only novel molecular diagnostic markers but also new gene therapy strategies for treating SLE and other inflammatory autoimmune diseases.

Dalal, S. R. and J. H. Kwon (2010). "The Role of MicroRNA in Inflammatory Bowel Disease." Gastroenterol Hepatol (N Y) 6(11): 714-722. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is the consequence of an abnormal immune response to environmental factors in genetically susceptible hosts. microRNAs (miRNAs) are small, 22-nucleotide, noncoding, single-stranded RNA molecules involved in the post-tran-scriptional regulation of 30% of protein-coding genes. Differential expression of miRNAs is described in multiple autoimmune-related conditions such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and asthma. Recently, unique miRNA expression profiles have been described in epithelial cells of patients with active ulcerative colitis, Crohn's ileitis, and Crohn's colitis, as well as in the peripheral blood of patients with active ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. miRNA expression profiles also change in the progression from normal colonic tissue to dysplastic tissue, with unaffected tissue from IBD patients and inflamed tissue from IBD patients showing intermediate profiles. Understanding the role of miRNAs in IBD may lead to future insights into disease pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment.. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is the consequence of an abnormal immune response to environmental factors in genetically susceptible hosts. microRNAs (miRNAs) are small, 22-nucleotide, noncoding, single-stranded RNA molecules involved in the post-tran-scriptional regulation of 30% of protein-coding genes. Differential expression of miRNAs is described in multiple autoimmune-related conditions such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and asthma. Recently, unique miRNA expression profiles have been described in epithelial cells of patients with active ulcerative colitis, Crohn's ileitis, and Crohn's colitis, as well as in the peripheral blood of patients with active ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. miRNA expression profiles also change in the progression from normal colonic tissue to dysplastic tissue, with unaffected tissue from IBD patients and inflamed tissue from IBD patients showing intermediate profiles. Understanding the role of miRNAs in IBD may lead to future insights into disease pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment.

Dang, Q., F. Yang, et al. (2017). "Inhibition of microRNA-34a ameliorates murine collagen-induced arthritis." Exp Ther Med 14(2): 1633-1639. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is one of the most frequently occurring autoimmne diseases, with symptoms including synovium hyperplasia, immune disorder, cartilage damage and bone resorption. It has previously been demonstrated that microRNA-34a (miR-34a) may participate in cell apoptosis, immune activation and bone metabolism, therefore the present study investigated the effects of miR-34a on RA. Collagen-induced arthritic (CIA) mice were employed as a murine model of experimental arthritis, and it was demonstrated that the level of miR-34a in the spleens, lymph nodes and synovium was increased in the CIA mice compared with normal DBA/1j mice. Administration of miR-34a antagomir, the chemically modified inhibitor, ameliorated CIA and delayed the onset of symptoms. Arthritis scores decreased and joint swelling was alleviated with the miR-34a antagomir treatment and the expression of inflammatory cytokines was decreased. miR-34a antagomir delivery significantly decreased the percentage of T cells present including T helper (Th) 1, Th2, Th17 and regulatory T cells. Furthermore miR-34a antagomir-treated CIA mice demonstrated decreased inflammatory-induced bone loss. Overall, it was observed that inhibition of miR-34a ameliorated murine arthritis, downregulated T cell percentage and cytokine expression, and suppressed bone loss. The experimental results suggest that inhibition of miR-34a may offer a novel alternative for the treatment of RA.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is one of the most frequently occurring autoimmne diseases, with symptoms including synovium hyperplasia, immune disorder, cartilage damage and bone resorption. It has previously been demonstrated that microRNA-34a (miR-34a) may participate in cell apoptosis, immune activation and bone metabolism, therefore the present study investigated the effects of miR-34a on RA. Collagen-induced arthritic (CIA) mice were employed as a murine model of experimental arthritis, and it was demonstrated that the level of miR-34a in the spleens, lymph nodes and synovium was increased in the CIA mice compared with normal DBA/1j mice. Administration of miR-34a antagomir, the chemically modified inhibitor, ameliorated CIA and delayed the onset of symptoms. Arthritis scores decreased and joint swelling was alleviated with the miR-34a antagomir treatment and the expression of inflammatory cytokines was decreased. miR-34a antagomir delivery significantly decreased the percentage of T cells present including T helper (Th) 1, Th2, Th17 and regulatory T cells. Furthermore miR-34a antagomir-treated CIA mice demonstrated decreased inflammatory-induced bone loss. Overall, it was observed that inhibition of miR-34a ameliorated murine arthritis, downregulated T cell percentage and cytokine expression, and suppressed bone loss. The experimental results suggest that inhibition of miR-34a may offer a novel alternative for the treatment of RA.

de la Rica, L., J. M. Urquiza, et al. (2013). "Identification of novel markers in rheumatoid arthritis through integrated analysis of DNA methylation and microRNA expression." J Autoimmun 41: 6-16. Autoimmune rheumatic diseases are complex disorders, whose etiopathology is attributed to a crosstalk between genetic predisposition and environmental factors. Both variants of autoimmune susceptibility genes and environment are involved in the generation of aberrant epigenetic profiles in a cell-specific manner, which ultimately result in dysregulation of expression. Furthermore, changes in miRNA expression profiles also cause gene dysregulation associated with aberrant phenotypes. In rheumatoid arthritis, several cell types are involved in the destruction of the joints, synovial fibroblasts being among the most important. In this study we performed DNA methylation and miRNA expression screening of a set of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts and compared the results with those obtained from osteoarthritis patients with a normal phenotype. DNA methylation screening allowed us to identify changes in novel key target genes like IL6R, CAPN8 and DPP4, as well as several HOX genes. A significant proportion of genes undergoing DNA methylation changes were inversely correlated with expression. miRNA screening revealed the existence of subsets of miRNAs that underwent changes in expression. Integrated analysis highlighted sets of miRNAs that are controlled by DNA methylation, and genes that are regulated by DNA methylation and are targeted by miRNAs with a potential use as clinical markers. Our study enabled the identification of novel dysregulated targets in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts and generated a new workflow for the integrated analysis of miRNA and epigenetic control.. Autoimmune rheumatic diseases are complex disorders, whose etiopathology is attributed to a crosstalk between genetic predisposition and environmental factors. Both variants of autoimmune susceptibility genes and environment are involved in the generation of aberrant epigenetic profiles in a cell-specific manner, which ultimately result in dysregulation of expression. Furthermore, changes in miRNA expression profiles also cause gene dysregulation associated with aberrant phenotypes. In rheumatoid arthritis, several cell types are involved in the destruction of the joints, synovial fibroblasts being among the most important. In this study we performed DNA methylation and miRNA expression screening of a set of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts and compared the results with those obtained from osteoarthritis patients with a normal phenotype. DNA methylation screening allowed us to identify changes in novel key target genes like IL6R, CAPN8 and DPP4, as well as several HOX genes. A significant proportion of genes undergoing DNA methylation changes were inversely correlated with expression. miRNA screening revealed the existence of subsets of miRNAs that underwent changes in expression. Integrated analysis highlighted sets of miRNAs that are controlled by DNA methylation, and genes that are regulated by DNA methylation and are targeted by miRNAs with a potential use as clinical markers. Our study enabled the identification of novel dysregulated targets in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts and generated a new workflow for the integrated analysis of miRNA and epigenetic control.

De Santis, M. and C. Selmi (2012). "The therapeutic potential of epigenetics in autoimmune diseases." Clin Rev Allergy Immunol 42(1): 92-101. Autoimmune diseases now include over 100 conditions and are estimated to affect over 20 million people in the United States or 5% of the world population with numerous geographical differences coined as geoepidemiology. Further, concordance rates in monozygotic twins are significantly higher compared to dizygotic sets while being significantly below 50% for most autoimmune diseases. These lines of evidence suggest that additional mechanisms are needed to link the individual susceptibility with the proposed chemical and infectious factors in the environment. Epigenetics may well constitute this missing link to include DNA methylation, histone changes, and microRNA which contribute to the epigenome characterizing specific diseases. Importantly, these epigenetic changes may be ideal targets for new personalized treatments as suggested by data in cancer. A number of chemical and physical factors, along with proposed infectious agents or aging, are involved in the etiopathogenesis of autoimmune diseases through epigenetic changes. The most prominent evidence on the association between environment and autoimmunity has been reported in systemic lupus erythematosus, but similar mechanisms were proposed in rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, and type 1 diabetes.. Autoimmune diseases now include over 100 conditions and are estimated to affect over 20 million people in the United States or 5% of the world population with numerous geographical differences coined as geoepidemiology. Further, concordance rates in monozygotic twins are significantly higher compared to dizygotic sets while being significantly below 50% for most autoimmune diseases. These lines of evidence suggest that additional mechanisms are needed to link the individual susceptibility with the proposed chemical and infectious factors in the environment. Epigenetics may well constitute this missing link to include DNA methylation, histone changes, and microRNA which contribute to the epigenome characterizing specific diseases. Importantly, these epigenetic changes may be ideal targets for new personalized treatments as suggested by data in cancer. A number of chemical and physical factors, along with proposed infectious agents or aging, are involved in the etiopathogenesis of autoimmune diseases through epigenetic changes. The most prominent evidence on the association between environment and autoimmunity has been reported in systemic lupus erythematosus, but similar mechanisms were proposed in rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, and type 1 diabetes.

Dong, L., X. Wang, et al. (2014). "Decreased expression of microRNA-21 correlates with the imbalance of Th17 and Treg cells in patients with rheumatoid arthritis." J Cell Mol Med 18(11): 2213-2224. The imbalance of Th17/Treg cell populations has been suggested to be involved in the regulation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis; however, the mechanism behind this phenomenon remains unclear. Recent studies have shown how microRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of immune responses and are involved in the development of a variety of inflammatory diseases, including RA. In this study, we demonstrated that the frequencies of CD3(+) CD4(+) IL-17(+) Th17 cells were significantly higher, and CD4(+) CD25(+) FOXP3(+) Treg cells significantly lower in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from RA patients. Detection of cytokines from RA patients revealed an elevated panel of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-17, IL-6, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and IL-22, which carry the inflammatory signature of RA and are crucial in the differentiation and maintenance of pathogenic Th17 cells and dysfunction of Treg cells. However, the level of miR-21 was significantly lower in RA patients, accompanied by the increase in STAT3 expression and activation, and decrease in STAT5/pSTAT5 protein and Foxp3 mRNA levels. Furthermore, lipopolysaccharide stimulation up-regulated miR-21 expression from healthy controls, but down-regulated miR-21 expression from RA patients. Therefore, we speculate that miR-21 may be part of a negative feedback loop in the normal setting. However, miR-21 levels decrease significantly in RA patients, suggesting that this feedback loop is dysregulated and may contribute to the imbalance of Th17 and Treg cells. MiR-21 may thus serve as a novel regulator in T-cell differentiation and homoeostasis, and provides a new therapeutic target for the treatment of RA.. The imbalance of Th17/Treg cell populations has been suggested to be involved in the regulation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis; however, the mechanism behind this phenomenon remains unclear. Recent studies have shown how microRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of immune responses and are involved in the development of a variety of inflammatory diseases, including RA. In this study, we demonstrated that the frequencies of CD3(+) CD4(+) IL-17(+) Th17 cells were significantly higher, and CD4(+) CD25(+) FOXP3(+) Treg cells significantly lower in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from RA patients. Detection of cytokines from RA patients revealed an elevated panel of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-17, IL-6, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and IL-22, which carry the inflammatory signature of RA and are crucial in the differentiation and maintenance of pathogenic Th17 cells and dysfunction of Treg cells. However, the level of miR-21 was significantly lower in RA patients, accompanied by the increase in STAT3 expression and activation, and decrease in STAT5/pSTAT5 protein and Foxp3 mRNA levels. Furthermore, lipopolysaccharide stimulation up-regulated miR-21 expression from healthy controls, but down-regulated miR-21 expression from RA patients. Therefore, we speculate that miR-21 may be part of a negative feedback loop in the normal setting. However, miR-21 levels decrease significantly in RA patients, suggesting that this feedback loop is dysregulated and may contribute to the imbalance of Th17 and Treg cells. MiR-21 may thus serve as a novel regulator in T-cell differentiation and homoeostasis, and provides a new therapeutic target for the treatment of RA.

Doody, K. M., N. Bottini, et al. (2017). "Epigenetic alterations in rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes." Epigenomics 9(4): 479-492. Rheumatoid arthritis is an immune-mediated disease that primarily affects diarthrodial joints. Susceptibility and severity of this disease are influenced by nongenetic factors, such as environmental stress, suggesting an important role of epigenetic changes. In this review, we summarize the epigenetic changes (DNA methylation, histone modification and miRNA expression) in fibroblast-like synoviocytes, which are the joint-lining mesenchymal cells that play an important role in joint inflammation and damage. We also review the effects of these epigenetic changes on rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis and discuss their therapeutic potential.. Rheumatoid arthritis is an immune-mediated disease that primarily affects diarthrodial joints. Susceptibility and severity of this disease are influenced by nongenetic factors, such as environmental stress, suggesting an important role of epigenetic changes. In this review, we summarize the epigenetic changes (DNA methylation, histone modification and miRNA expression) in fibroblast-like synoviocytes, which are the joint-lining mesenchymal cells that play an important role in joint inflammation and damage. We also review the effects of these epigenetic changes on rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis and discuss their therapeutic potential.

Du, J., F. Zhang, et al. (2018). "miR137 decreases proliferation, migration and invasion in rheumatoid arthritis fibroblastlike synoviocytes." Mol Med Rep 17(2): 3312-3317. MicroRNA-137 (miR-137) is involved in cell proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis in a variety of cells. However, the role of miR137 in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains unclear. The present study aimed to identify the biological roles of miR137 in RA. The expression of miR137 in RA fibroblastlike synoviocytes (RAFLS) and in normal control FLS was detected by reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR). The effects of miR137 on RAFLS proliferation, migration and invasion were also determined using MTT, wound healing and Transwell invasion assays, respectively. The effects of miR137 on inflammatory cytokine expression in RAFLS were assessed by ELISA. Bioinformatics databases (TargetScan and miRanda), luciferase reporter assays, RTqPCR and western blotting assays were conducted to identify potential target genes. miR137 expression was decreased in RAFLS compared with expression in normal control FLS. Overexpression of miR137 resulted in a significant reduction in RAFLS proliferation, migration and invasion, and decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines of RAFLS. In addition, bioinformatics analysis and luciferase reporter assays indicated that miR137 may target the 3'untranslated region of CXC motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12), which was confirmed by RTqPCR and western blot analyses. These results further demonstrated that miR137may serve an inhibitory role in RA by targeting CXCL12 expression, and miR137 may be a potential target for the treatment of RA.. MicroRNA-137 (miR-137) is involved in cell proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis in a variety of cells. However, the role of miR137 in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains unclear. The present study aimed to identify the biological roles of miR137 in RA. The expression of miR137 in RA fibroblastlike synoviocytes (RAFLS) and in normal control FLS was detected by reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR). The effects of miR137 on RAFLS proliferation, migration and invasion were also determined using MTT, wound healing and Transwell invasion assays, respectively. The effects of miR137 on inflammatory cytokine expression in RAFLS were assessed by ELISA. Bioinformatics databases (TargetScan and miRanda), luciferase reporter assays, RTqPCR and western blotting assays were conducted to identify potential target genes. miR137 expression was decreased in RAFLS compared with expression in normal control FLS. Overexpression of miR137 resulted in a significant reduction in RAFLS proliferation, migration and invasion, and decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines of RAFLS. In addition, bioinformatics analysis and luciferase reporter assays indicated that miR137 may target the 3'untranslated region of CXC motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12), which was confirmed by RTqPCR and western blot analyses. These results further demonstrated that miR137may serve an inhibitory role in RA by targeting CXCL12 expression, and miR137 may be a potential target for the treatment of RA.

Dudics, S., S. H. Venkatesha, et al. (2018). "The Micro-RNA Expression Profiles of Autoimmune Arthritis Reveal Novel Biomarkers of the Disease and Therapeutic Response." Int J Mol Sci 19(8)Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease of the joints affecting about 0.3(-)1% of the population in different countries. About 50(-)60 percent of RA patients respond to presently used drugs. Moreover, the current biomarkers for RA have inherent limitations. Consequently, there is a need for additional, new biomarkers for monitoring disease activity and responsiveness to therapy of RA patients. We examined the micro-RNA (miRNA) profile of immune (lymphoid) cells of arthritic Lewis rats and arthritic rats treated with celastrol, a natural triterpenoid. Experimental and bioinformatics analyses revealed 8 miRNAs (miR-22, miR-27a, miR-96, miR-142, miR-223, miR-296, miR-298, and miR-451) and their target genes in functional pathways important for RA pathogenesis. Interestingly, 6 of them (miR-22, miR-27a, miR-96, miR-142, miR-223, and miR-296) were further modulated by celastrol treatment. Interestingly, serum levels of miR-142, miR-155, and miR-223 were higher in arthritic versus control rats, whereas miR-212 showed increased expression in celastrol-treated rats compared with arthritic rats or control rats. This is the first study on comprehensive miRNA expression profiling in the adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) model and it also has revealed new miRNA targets for celastrol in arthritis. We suggest that subsets of the above miRNAs may serve as novel biomarkers of disease activity and therapeutic response in arthritis.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease of the joints affecting about 0.3(-)1% of the population in different countries. About 50(-)60 percent of RA patients respond to presently used drugs. Moreover, the current biomarkers for RA have inherent limitations. Consequently, there is a need for additional, new biomarkers for monitoring disease activity and responsiveness to therapy of RA patients. We examined the micro-RNA (miRNA) profile of immune (lymphoid) cells of arthritic Lewis rats and arthritic rats treated with celastrol, a natural triterpenoid. Experimental and bioinformatics analyses revealed 8 miRNAs (miR-22, miR-27a, miR-96, miR-142, miR-223, miR-296, miR-298, and miR-451) and their target genes in functional pathways important for RA pathogenesis. Interestingly, 6 of them (miR-22, miR-27a, miR-96, miR-142, miR-223, and miR-296) were further modulated by celastrol treatment. Interestingly, serum levels of miR-142, miR-155, and miR-223 were higher in arthritic versus control rats, whereas miR-212 showed increased expression in celastrol-treated rats compared with arthritic rats or control rats. This is the first study on comprehensive miRNA expression profiling in the adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) model and it also has revealed new miRNA targets for celastrol in arthritis. We suggest that subsets of the above miRNAs may serve as novel biomarkers of disease activity and therapeutic response in arthritis.

Dupuis, M. L., F. Conti, et al. (2018). "The Natural Agonist of Estrogen Receptor beta Silibinin Plays an Immunosuppressive Role Representing a Potential Therapeutic Tool in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Front Immunol 9: 1903. Estrogens, in particular 17beta-estradiol (E2), have a strong influence on the immune system and also affect pathological conditions such as autoimmune diseases. The biological effects of E2 are mediated by two intracellular receptors, i.e., estrogen receptor (ER)alpha and ERbeta, which function as ligand-activated nuclear transcription factors producing genomic effects. Immune cells express both ERalpha and ERbeta that play a complex role in modulating inflammation. Phytoestrogens display estrogen-like effects. Among them, silibinin, the major active constituent of silymarin extracted by the milk thistle (Silybum marianum), has been suggested to have an ERbeta selective binding. Silibinin is known to have anti-inflammatory, hepatoprotective, and anticarcinogenic effects; however, the role of silibinin in modulating human immune responses and its impact on autoimmunity remains unclear. Aim of this study was to dissect the ability of the ERbeta natural ligand silibinin to modulate T cell immunity, taking into account possible differences between females and males, and to define its possible role as therapeutic tool in immune-mediated diseases. To this purpose, female and age-matched male healthy subjects and patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were recruited. We evaluated the ability of silibinin to modulate ERbeta expression in T lymphocytes and its effects on T cell functions (i.e., apoptosis, proliferation, and cytokine production). We also analyzed whether silibinin was able to modulate the expression of microRNA-155 (miR-155), which strongly contributes to the pathogenesis of RA driving aberrant activation of the immune system. We demonstrated that silibinin upregulated ERbeta expression, induced apoptosis, inhibited proliferation, and reduced expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-17 and TNF-alpha, through ERbeta binding, in T lymphocytes from female and male healthy donors. We obtained similar results in T lymphocytes from patients with active RA in term of apoptosis, proliferation, and cytokine production. In addition, we found that silibinin acted as an epigenetic modifier, down-modulating the expression of miR-155. In conclusion, our data demonstrated an immunosuppressive role of silibinin, supporting its application in the treatment of autoimmune diseases as drug, but also as dietary nutritional supplement, opening new perspective in the field of autoimmune disease management.. Estrogens, in particular 17beta-estradiol (E2), have a strong influence on the immune system and also affect pathological conditions such as autoimmune diseases. The biological effects of E2 are mediated by two intracellular receptors, i.e., estrogen receptor (ER)alpha and ERbeta, which function as ligand-activated nuclear transcription factors producing genomic effects. Immune cells express both ERalpha and ERbeta that play a complex role in modulating inflammation. Phytoestrogens display estrogen-like effects. Among them, silibinin, the major active constituent of silymarin extracted by the milk thistle (Silybum marianum), has been suggested to have an ERbeta selective binding. Silibinin is known to have anti-inflammatory, hepatoprotective, and anticarcinogenic effects; however, the role of silibinin in modulating human immune responses and its impact on autoimmunity remains unclear. Aim of this study was to dissect the ability of the ERbeta natural ligand silibinin to modulate T cell immunity, taking into account possible differences between females and males, and to define its possible role as therapeutic tool in immune-mediated diseases. To this purpose, female and age-matched male healthy subjects and patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were recruited. We evaluated the ability of silibinin to modulate ERbeta expression in T lymphocytes and its effects on T cell functions (i.e., apoptosis, proliferation, and cytokine production). We also analyzed whether silibinin was able to modulate the expression of microRNA-155 (miR-155), which strongly contributes to the pathogenesis of RA driving aberrant activation of the immune system. We demonstrated that silibinin upregulated ERbeta expression, induced apoptosis, inhibited proliferation, and reduced expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-17 and TNF-alpha, through ERbeta binding, in T lymphocytes from female and male healthy donors. We obtained similar results in T lymphocytes from patients with active RA in term of apoptosis, proliferation, and cytokine production. In addition, we found that silibinin acted as an epigenetic modifier, down-modulating the expression of miR-155. In conclusion, our data demonstrated an immunosuppressive role of silibinin, supporting its application in the treatment of autoimmune diseases as drug, but also as dietary nutritional supplement, opening new perspective in the field of autoimmune disease management.

Duroux-Richard, I., Y. M. Pers, et al. (2014). "Circulating miRNA-125b is a potential biomarker predicting response to rituximab in rheumatoid arthritis." Mediators Inflamm 2014: 342524. Although biologic therapies have changed the course of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), today's major challenge remains to identify biomarkers to target treatments to selected patient groups. Circulating micro(mi)RNAs represent a novel class of molecular biomarkers whose expression is altered in RA. Our study aimed at quantifying miR-125b in blood and serum samples from RA patients, comparing healthy controls and patients with other forms of rheumatic diseases and arthritis, and evaluating its predictive value as biomarker for response to rituximab. Detectable levels of miR-125b were measured in total blood and serum samples and were significantly elevated in RA patients compared to osteoarthritic and healthy donors. The increase was however also found in patients with other forms of chronic inflammatory arthritis. Importantly, high serum levels of miR-125b at disease flare were associated with good clinical response to treatment with rituximab three months later (P = 0.002). This predictive value was not limited to RA as it was also found in patients with B lymphomas. Our results identify circulating miR-125b as a novel miRNA over expressed in RA and suggest that serum level of miR-125b is potential predictive biomarker of response to rituximab treatment.. Although biologic therapies have changed the course of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), today's major challenge remains to identify biomarkers to target treatments to selected patient groups. Circulating micro(mi)RNAs represent a novel class of molecular biomarkers whose expression is altered in RA. Our study aimed at quantifying miR-125b in blood and serum samples from RA patients, comparing healthy controls and patients with other forms of rheumatic diseases and arthritis, and evaluating its predictive value as biomarker for response to rituximab. Detectable levels of miR-125b were measured in total blood and serum samples and were significantly elevated in RA patients compared to osteoarthritic and healthy donors. The increase was however also found in patients with other forms of chronic inflammatory arthritis. Importantly, high serum levels of miR-125b at disease flare were associated with good clinical response to treatment with rituximab three months later (P = 0.002). This predictive value was not limited to RA as it was also found in patients with B lymphomas. Our results identify circulating miR-125b as a novel miRNA over expressed in RA and suggest that serum level of miR-125b is potential predictive biomarker of response to rituximab treatment.

Elmesmari, A., A. R. Fraser, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-155 regulates monocyte chemokine and chemokine receptor expression in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Rheumatology (Oxford) 55(11): 2056-2065. OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that miR-155 regulates monocyte migratory potential via modulation of chemokine and chemokine receptor expression in RA, and thereby is associated with disease activity. METHODS: The miR-155 copy-numbers in monocytes from peripheral blood (PB) of healthy (n = 22), RA (n = 24) and RA SF (n = 11) were assessed by real time-PCR using synthetic miR-155 as a quantitative standard. To evaluate the functional impact of miR-155, human monocytes were transfected with control or miR-155 mimic, and the effect on transcript levels, and production of chemokines was evaluated by Taqman low-density arrays and multiplex assays. A comparative study evaluated constitutive chemokine receptor expression in miR-155(-/-) and wild-type murine (CD115 (+) Ly6C (+) Ly6G(-)) monocytes. RESULTS: Compared with healthy monocytes, the miR-155 copy-number was higher in RA, peripheral blood (PB) and SF monocytes (PB P < 0.01, and SF P < 0.0001). The miR-155 copy-number in RA PB monocytes was higher in ACPA-positive compared with ACPA-negative patients (P = 0.033) and correlated (95% CI) with DAS28 (ESR), R = 0.728 (0.460, 0.874), and with tender, R = 0.631 (0.306, 0.824) and swollen, R = 0.503 (0.125, 0.753) joint counts. Enforced-expression of miR-155 in RA monocytes stimulated the production of CCL3, CCL4, CCL5 and CCL8; upregulated CCR7 expression; and downregulated CCR2. Conversely, miR155(-/-) monocytes showed downregulated CCR7 and upregulated CCR2 expression. CONCLUSION: Given the observed correlations with disease activity, these data provide strong evidence that miR-155 can contribute to RA pathogenesis by regulating chemokine production and pro-inflammatory chemokine receptor expression, thereby promoting inflammatory cell recruitment and retention in the RA synovium.. OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that miR-155 regulates monocyte migratory potential via modulation of chemokine and chemokine receptor expression in RA, and thereby is associated with disease activity. METHODS: The miR-155 copy-numbers in monocytes from peripheral blood (PB) of healthy (n = 22), RA (n = 24) and RA SF (n = 11) were assessed by real time-PCR using synthetic miR-155 as a quantitative standard. To evaluate the functional impact of miR-155, human monocytes were transfected with control or miR-155 mimic, and the effect on transcript levels, and production of chemokines was evaluated by Taqman low-density arrays and multiplex assays. A comparative study evaluated constitutive chemokine receptor expression in miR-155(-/-) and wild-type murine (CD115 (+) Ly6C (+) Ly6G(-)) monocytes. RESULTS: Compared with healthy monocytes, the miR-155 copy-number was higher in RA, peripheral blood (PB) and SF monocytes (PB P < 0.01, and SF P < 0.0001). The miR-155 copy-number in RA PB monocytes was higher in ACPA-positive compared with ACPA-negative patients (P = 0.033) and correlated (95% CI) with DAS28 (ESR), R = 0.728 (0.460, 0.874), and with tender, R = 0.631 (0.306, 0.824) and swollen, R = 0.503 (0.125, 0.753) joint counts. Enforced-expression of miR-155 in RA monocytes stimulated the production of CCL3, CCL4, CCL5 and CCL8; upregulated CCR7 expression; and downregulated CCR2. Conversely, miR155(-/-) monocytes showed downregulated CCR7 and upregulated CCR2 expression. CONCLUSION: Given the observed correlations with disease activity, these data provide strong evidence that miR-155 can contribute to RA pathogenesis by regulating chemokine production and pro-inflammatory chemokine receptor expression, thereby promoting inflammatory cell recruitment and retention in the RA synovium.

El-Shal, A. S., N. M. Aly, et al. (2013). "Association of microRNAs genes polymorphisms with rheumatoid arthritis in Egyptian female patients." Joint Bone Spine 80(6): 626-631. OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether miRNA-499 (rs3746444) and miRNA-146a (rs2910164) genes polymorphisms are independent factors for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in Egyptians, and whether they influence disease severity and activity. METHODS: Two hundred and seventeen RA patients and 245 healthy controls were enrolled in this study. Polymorphisms of miRNA-146a and miRNA-499 genes were detected using polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). RESULTS: The miRNA-499 CT genotype was an independent factor of RA. The miRNA-499 CT, CC genotypes and C allele frequencies were significantly increased in erosive RA group. Moreover, the heterozygote CT had more severe and more active form of the disease compared with homozygote CC or TT. However, we did not find any significant association of miRNA-146a polymorphism with RA risk, severity, and activity. CONCLUSION: The miRNA-499 polymorphism is an independent factor of RA, and influences disease severity and activity.. OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether miRNA-499 (rs3746444) and miRNA-146a (rs2910164) genes polymorphisms are independent factors for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in Egyptians, and whether they influence disease severity and activity. METHODS: Two hundred and seventeen RA patients and 245 healthy controls were enrolled in this study. Polymorphisms of miRNA-146a and miRNA-499 genes were detected using polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). RESULTS: The miRNA-499 CT genotype was an independent factor of RA. The miRNA-499 CT, CC genotypes and C allele frequencies were significantly increased in erosive RA group. Moreover, the heterozygote CT had more severe and more active form of the disease compared with homozygote CC or TT. However, we did not find any significant association of miRNA-146a polymorphism with RA risk, severity, and activity. CONCLUSION: The miRNA-499 polymorphism is an independent factor of RA, and influences disease severity and activity.

Escobar, T., C. R. Yu, et al. (2013). "STAT3 activates miR-155 in Th17 cells and acts in concert to promote experimental autoimmune uveitis." Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 54(6): 4017-4025. PURPOSE: MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) and STAT3 are implicated in uveitis and pathogenic mechanisms of CNS autoimmune diseases. In our study, we used miR-155(-/-) mice and mice with targeted STAT3 deletion in T cells (CD4-STAT3KO) to investigate roles of miR-155 and STAT3 in the development of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU), a mouse model of human uveitis. METHODS: We induced EAU in WT, miR-155(-/-), or CD4-STAT3KO mice by immunization with interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein/complete Freund's adjuvant (IRBP/CFA) or adoptive transfer of T cells. EAU was assessed by funduscopy and histology. RNA expression was analyzed by quantitative PCR (qPCR), while cytokine production was assessed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). RESULTS: We used a combination of genomic and genetic tools to provide the first evidence that STAT3 binds directly to the miR-155 locus and that STAT3 is required for miR-155 expression. Furthermore, STAT3-dependent increase in miR-155 expression in vivo correlated temporally with onset of EAU, and miR-155(-/-) or CD4-STAT3KO mice did not suffer EAU. CD4(+) lymph node cells from IRBP-immunized WT mice transferred EAU to naive wild-type (WT) and miR-155(-/-) mice, while miR-155(-/-) IRBP-specific T cells did not. CONCLUSIONS: Although miR-155 and STAT3 have been implicated in the etiology of multiple sclerosis (MS), uveitis, or rheumatoid arthritis, their exact roles in these diseases are unclear. We show here for the first time to our knowledge that STAT3 regulates miR-155 expression in Th17 cells. We show further that STAT3 and miR-155 form an axis that promotes the expansion of pathogenic Th17 cells that mediate uveitis. Thus, STAT3 and miR-155 may be therapeutic targets for treating uveitis and other Th17-mediated inflammatory disorders.. PURPOSE: MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) and STAT3 are implicated in uveitis and pathogenic mechanisms of CNS autoimmune diseases. In our study, we used miR-155(-/-) mice and mice with targeted STAT3 deletion in T cells (CD4-STAT3KO) to investigate roles of miR-155 and STAT3 in the development of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU), a mouse model of human uveitis. METHODS: We induced EAU in WT, miR-155(-/-), or CD4-STAT3KO mice by immunization with interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein/complete Freund's adjuvant (IRBP/CFA) or adoptive transfer of T cells. EAU was assessed by funduscopy and histology. RNA expression was analyzed by quantitative PCR (qPCR), while cytokine production was assessed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). RESULTS: We used a combination of genomic and genetic tools to provide the first evidence that STAT3 binds directly to the miR-155 locus and that STAT3 is required for miR-155 expression. Furthermore, STAT3-dependent increase in miR-155 expression in vivo correlated temporally with onset of EAU, and miR-155(-/-) or CD4-STAT3KO mice did not suffer EAU. CD4(+) lymph node cells from IRBP-immunized WT mice transferred EAU to naive wild-type (WT) and miR-155(-/-) mice, while miR-155(-/-) IRBP-specific T cells did not. CONCLUSIONS: Although miR-155 and STAT3 have been implicated in the etiology of multiple sclerosis (MS), uveitis, or rheumatoid arthritis, their exact roles in these diseases are unclear. We show here for the first time to our knowledge that STAT3 regulates miR-155 expression in Th17 cells. We show further that STAT3 and miR-155 form an axis that promotes the expansion of pathogenic Th17 cells that mediate uveitis. Thus, STAT3 and miR-155 may be therapeutic targets for treating uveitis and other Th17-mediated inflammatory disorders.

Fan, P., L. He, et al. (2017). "Effect of 1,25-(OH)2D3 on Proliferation of Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes and Expressions of Pro-Inflammatory Cytokines through Regulating MicroRNA-22 in a Rat Model of Rheumatoid Arthritis." Cell Physiol Biochem 42(1): 145-155. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the regulatory mechanism of 1,25-(OH)2D3 on the proliferation of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) and expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) rats via microRNA-22 (miR-22). METHODS: A rat model of RA was established with a subcutaneous injection of type II collagen. After treated with different concentrations of 1,25-(OH)2D3 the proliferation of FLS was estimated by the MTT method, and the optimal concentration of 1,25-(OH)2D3 was selected for further experiments. Cell proliferation was detected by MTT. Cell cycle and apoptosis were analyzed by FCM. The IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, and PGE2 protein expressions were determined by ELISA, and MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2 mRNA expressions were measured by qRT-PCR. RESULTS: The rat model of RA was successfully established. Compared with the blank group, the 1,25-(OH)2D3 and miR-22 inhibitors groups exhibited higher proliferation inhibition and apoptosis rates, lower levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, and PGE2), and decreased mRNA expressions of MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2. The miR-22 mimics group had lower proliferation inhibition and apoptosis rates, elevated expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines and MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2 than the blank group. In contrast to the 1,25-(OH)2D3 group, the proliferation inhibition and apoptosis rates were down-regulated, and the expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines and MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2 were up-regulated in the 1,25-(OH)2D3 + miR-22 mimics group. CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that 1,25-(OH)2D3 inhibits the proliferation of FLS and alleviates inflammatory response in RA rats by down-regulating miR-22.. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the regulatory mechanism of 1,25-(OH)2D3 on the proliferation of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) and expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) rats via microRNA-22 (miR-22). METHODS: A rat model of RA was established with a subcutaneous injection of type II collagen. After treated with different concentrations of 1,25-(OH)2D3 the proliferation of FLS was estimated by the MTT method, and the optimal concentration of 1,25-(OH)2D3 was selected for further experiments. Cell proliferation was detected by MTT. Cell cycle and apoptosis were analyzed by FCM. The IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, and PGE2 protein expressions were determined by ELISA, and MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2 mRNA expressions were measured by qRT-PCR. RESULTS: The rat model of RA was successfully established. Compared with the blank group, the 1,25-(OH)2D3 and miR-22 inhibitors groups exhibited higher proliferation inhibition and apoptosis rates, lower levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, and PGE2), and decreased mRNA expressions of MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2. The miR-22 mimics group had lower proliferation inhibition and apoptosis rates, elevated expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines and MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2 than the blank group. In contrast to the 1,25-(OH)2D3 group, the proliferation inhibition and apoptosis rates were down-regulated, and the expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines and MMP-3, INOS, and Cox-2 were up-regulated in the 1,25-(OH)2D3 + miR-22 mimics group. CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that 1,25-(OH)2D3 inhibits the proliferation of FLS and alleviates inflammatory response in RA rats by down-regulating miR-22.

Fang, G., J. Liu, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA-223-3p Regulates Ovarian Cancer Cell Proliferation and Invasion by Targeting SOX11 Expression." Int J Mol Sci 18(6)MicroRNAs (miRNAs) often display different expression in many cancers and other diseases in current research studies. miR-223 expression is upregulated in rheumatoid arthritis. Also, miR-223 expression has been demonstrated to be highly expressed in pancreatic cancer and gastric cancer in comparison with normal tissue. However, whether miR-223 displays different expression in ovarian cancer and what its underlying functions are in ovarian cancer have remained unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that miR-223-3p was upregulated in ovarian cancer tissue. Next, we explored the functional role of miR-223-3p in ovarian cancer using SKOV3 and OVCAR3 cell lines. Our results suggested that miR-223-3p mimic promoted ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro. However, miR-223-3p inhibitor displayed the opposite effects. In addition, we demonstrated that miR-223-3p mimic promoted tumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, we found SOX11 (sex determining region Y-box 11) was inversely expressed with miR-223-3p in ovarian cancer (OC) cell lines and tissue specimens. miR-223-3p mimic decreased SOX11 expression. Overexpressing SOX11 inhibited ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion, which indicated that miR-223-3p regulated OC cell proliferation and invasion through targeting SOX11 expression. In conclusion, the findings of the present study demonstrated that miR-223-3p could be a potential therapeutic for ovarian cancer.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) often display different expression in many cancers and other diseases in current research studies. miR-223 expression is upregulated in rheumatoid arthritis. Also, miR-223 expression has been demonstrated to be highly expressed in pancreatic cancer and gastric cancer in comparison with normal tissue. However, whether miR-223 displays different expression in ovarian cancer and what its underlying functions are in ovarian cancer have remained unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that miR-223-3p was upregulated in ovarian cancer tissue. Next, we explored the functional role of miR-223-3p in ovarian cancer using SKOV3 and OVCAR3 cell lines. Our results suggested that miR-223-3p mimic promoted ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro. However, miR-223-3p inhibitor displayed the opposite effects. In addition, we demonstrated that miR-223-3p mimic promoted tumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, we found SOX11 (sex determining region Y-box 11) was inversely expressed with miR-223-3p in ovarian cancer (OC) cell lines and tissue specimens. miR-223-3p mimic decreased SOX11 expression. Overexpressing SOX11 inhibited ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion, which indicated that miR-223-3p regulated OC cell proliferation and invasion through targeting SOX11 expression. In conclusion, the findings of the present study demonstrated that miR-223-3p could be a potential therapeutic for ovarian cancer.

Farina, A. K., Y. S. Bong, et al. (2009). "Post-transcriptional regulation of cadherin-11 expression by GSK-3 and beta-catenin in prostate and breast cancer cells." PLoS One 4(3): e4797. BACKGROUND: The cell-cell adhesion molecule cadherin-11 is important in embryogenesis and bone morphogenesis, invasion of cancer cells, lymphangiogenesis, homing of cancer cells to bone, and rheumatoid arthritis. However, very little is known about the regulation of cadherin-11 expression. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here we show that cell density and GSK-3beta regulate cadherin-11 levels in cancer cells. Inactivation of GSK3beta with lithium chloride or the GSK3 inhibitor BIO and GSK3beta knockdown with siRNA repressed cadherin-11 mRNA and protein levels. RNA Polymerase II chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments showed that inhibition of GSK3 does not affect cadherin-11 gene transcription. Although the cadherin-11 3'UTR contains putative microRNA target sites and is regulated by Dicer, its stability is not regulated by GSK3 inhibition or density. Our data show that GSK3beta regulates cadherin-11 expression in two ways: first a beta-catenin-independent regulation of cadherin-11 steady state mRNA levels, and second a beta-catenin-dependent effect on cadherin-11 3'UTR stability and protein translation. CONCLUSIONS: Cadherin-11 mRNA and protein levels are regulated by the activity of GSK3beta and a significant degree of this regulation is exerted by the GSK3 target, beta-catenin, at the level of the cadherin-11 3'UTR.. BACKGROUND: The cell-cell adhesion molecule cadherin-11 is important in embryogenesis and bone morphogenesis, invasion of cancer cells, lymphangiogenesis, homing of cancer cells to bone, and rheumatoid arthritis. However, very little is known about the regulation of cadherin-11 expression. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here we show that cell density and GSK-3beta regulate cadherin-11 levels in cancer cells. Inactivation of GSK3beta with lithium chloride or the GSK3 inhibitor BIO and GSK3beta knockdown with siRNA repressed cadherin-11 mRNA and protein levels. RNA Polymerase II chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments showed that inhibition of GSK3 does not affect cadherin-11 gene transcription. Although the cadherin-11 3'UTR contains putative microRNA target sites and is regulated by Dicer, its stability is not regulated by GSK3 inhibition or density. Our data show that GSK3beta regulates cadherin-11 expression in two ways: first a beta-catenin-independent regulation of cadherin-11 steady state mRNA levels, and second a beta-catenin-dependent effect on cadherin-11 3'UTR stability and protein translation. CONCLUSIONS: Cadherin-11 mRNA and protein levels are regulated by the activity of GSK3beta and a significant degree of this regulation is exerted by the GSK3 target, beta-catenin, at the level of the cadherin-11 3'UTR.

Fattah, S. A., M. H. Ghattas, et al. (2018). "Pre-micro RNA-499 Gene Polymorphism rs3746444 T/C is Associated with Susceptibility to Rheumatoid Arthritis in Egyptian Population." Indian J Clin Biochem 33(1): 96-101. Pre-miRNA-499 gene is associated with autoimmune disease. Mir-449 rs3746444 polymorphism is inconsistent for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study aimed to investigate association of mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism with RA activity and severity in Egyptian population. The study population was conducted as case control study in 100 RA patients diagnosed according to the American College of Rheumatology classification criteria for RA, and the control group included 100 healthy subjects who were age-and sex-matched to the RA group. Different genotypes were assessed using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. 95% Confidence interval and odds ratio were defined to assess the strength of association. Regarding patients, thirty-three patients carried TT genotype, fifty-three patients carried TC genotype and fourteen patients carried CC genotype. So the frequency of the minor C allele in RA patients was significantly higher than the control subjects (P = 0.037). TC, CC genotypes and C allele frequencies were significantly associated with disease severity as they had high rheumatoid factor (55.78 microIU/ml) and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (Anti-CCP) antibody (297.32 microIU/ml). Moreover, the heterozygote TC had more severe and more active form of the disease compared with homozygote CC or TT as they had high Anti-CCP antibody, and disease activity score 28 (score 5). Our work suggests that C allele of Pre-miRNA rs3746444 polymorphism contributes to heritability of susceptibility to RA compared to T allele. This polymorphism was associated with the activity and severity of the disease.. Pre-miRNA-499 gene is associated with autoimmune disease. Mir-449 rs3746444 polymorphism is inconsistent for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study aimed to investigate association of mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism with RA activity and severity in Egyptian population. The study population was conducted as case control study in 100 RA patients diagnosed according to the American College of Rheumatology classification criteria for RA, and the control group included 100 healthy subjects who were age-and sex-matched to the RA group. Different genotypes were assessed using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. 95% Confidence interval and odds ratio were defined to assess the strength of association. Regarding patients, thirty-three patients carried TT genotype, fifty-three patients carried TC genotype and fourteen patients carried CC genotype. So the frequency of the minor C allele in RA patients was significantly higher than the control subjects (P = 0.037). TC, CC genotypes and C allele frequencies were significantly associated with disease severity as they had high rheumatoid factor (55.78 microIU/ml) and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (Anti-CCP) antibody (297.32 microIU/ml). Moreover, the heterozygote TC had more severe and more active form of the disease compared with homozygote CC or TT as they had high Anti-CCP antibody, and disease activity score 28 (score 5). Our work suggests that C allele of Pre-miRNA rs3746444 polymorphism contributes to heritability of susceptibility to RA compared to T allele. This polymorphism was associated with the activity and severity of the disease.

Feng, Z. T., J. Li, et al. (2011). "[Expression of miR-146a and miR-16 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and their correlation to the disease activity]." Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao 31(2): 320-323. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression levels of miR-146a and miR -16 in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and their correlation to the disease activity. METHODS: The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 in the in PBMCs were measured using real-time RT-PCR in 40 RA patients and 16 healthy individuals. The correlations of miR-146a and miR-16 expressions to the disease activity of RA were analyzed. RESULTS: The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 in the PBMCs of RA patients increased significantly compared to those in the healthy individuals (P<0.05). Their expression levels was significantly higher in active RA patients than in patients with disease remission (P<0.05) and healthy individuals (P<0.01). The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 were positively correlated to ESR, CRP and the disease activity scores in 28 joints (DAS28) (P<0.01), but not to RF (P>0.05). CONCLUSION: The elevated expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 are correlated to RA disease activity, suggesting their value in assessment of the clinical disease activity of RA.. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression levels of miR-146a and miR -16 in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and their correlation to the disease activity. METHODS: The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 in the in PBMCs were measured using real-time RT-PCR in 40 RA patients and 16 healthy individuals. The correlations of miR-146a and miR-16 expressions to the disease activity of RA were analyzed. RESULTS: The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 in the PBMCs of RA patients increased significantly compared to those in the healthy individuals (P<0.05). Their expression levels was significantly higher in active RA patients than in patients with disease remission (P<0.05) and healthy individuals (P<0.01). The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 were positively correlated to ESR, CRP and the disease activity scores in 28 joints (DAS28) (P<0.01), but not to RF (P>0.05). CONCLUSION: The elevated expression levels of miR-146a and miR-16 are correlated to RA disease activity, suggesting their value in assessment of the clinical disease activity of RA.

Ferrand, J. and M. P. Gantier (2016). "Assessing the Inhibitory Activity of Oligonucleotides on TLR7 Sensing." Methods Mol Biol 1390: 79-90. Aberrant sensing of self-nucleic acids by Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7, 8, or 9 is associated with several autoimmune disorders, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, or systemic sclerosis. In recent years, several classes of synthetic oligonucleotides have been shown to antagonize sensing of immunostimulatory nucleic acids by TLR7/8/9, indicating that these molecules could have therapeutic applications in such autoimmune diseases. Conversely, synthetic oligonucleotides used in therapeutic technologies such as antisense and microRNA inhibitors also have the potential to inhibit TLR7/8/9 sensing, rendering patients more susceptible to viral/bacterial infections. This chapter describes a protocol to define the inhibitory activity of synthetic oligonucleotides on TLR7.. Aberrant sensing of self-nucleic acids by Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7, 8, or 9 is associated with several autoimmune disorders, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, or systemic sclerosis. In recent years, several classes of synthetic oligonucleotides have been shown to antagonize sensing of immunostimulatory nucleic acids by TLR7/8/9, indicating that these molecules could have therapeutic applications in such autoimmune diseases. Conversely, synthetic oligonucleotides used in therapeutic technologies such as antisense and microRNA inhibitors also have the potential to inhibit TLR7/8/9 sensing, rendering patients more susceptible to viral/bacterial infections. This chapter describes a protocol to define the inhibitory activity of synthetic oligonucleotides on TLR7.

Figueiredo Neto, M. and M. L. Figueiredo (2017). "Combination of Interleukin-27 and MicroRNA for Enhancing Expression of Anti-Inflammatory and Proosteogenic Genes." Arthritis 2017: 6365857. Remission of inflammation has become an achievable goal in inflammatory or rheumatoid arthritis (RA); however, bone erosion continues in many patients. Interleukin- (IL-) 27 regulates immune and bone cell balance and also suppresses activities of several inflammatory cell types in RA. Despite its promise, challenges to clinical translation of IL-27 have been its partial effects in vivo. Due to their ability to modulate plasticity of bone and immune cell differentiation, we examined the potential for several microRNA (miR) candidates in enhancing the effects of IL-27. Using differentiation, luciferase, and real time quantitative PCR assays, we show that IL-27 promotes osteoblast differentiation, reduces expression of osteoblast inhibitory genes, and reduces osteoclast differentiation, and results suggest a potential coordination with TGFbeta/BMP/SMAD and JAK/STAT pathways. We selected miRNA regulators of these and related pathways to examine whether the effects of IL-27 could be augmented for therapeutic applications. miR-29b and miR-21 augmented IL-27 proosteogenic while downregulating osteoclastogenic signals and also worked to reduce inflammatory signaling in activated macrophages, while miR-21 and miR-20b worked with IL-27 to reduce inflammatory gene expression in fibroblasts and T cells. It appears that several miRNAs can be utilized to enhance IL-27's impact on modulating osteogenesis and reducing proinflammatory signaling.. Remission of inflammation has become an achievable goal in inflammatory or rheumatoid arthritis (RA); however, bone erosion continues in many patients. Interleukin- (IL-) 27 regulates immune and bone cell balance and also suppresses activities of several inflammatory cell types in RA. Despite its promise, challenges to clinical translation of IL-27 have been its partial effects in vivo. Due to their ability to modulate plasticity of bone and immune cell differentiation, we examined the potential for several microRNA (miR) candidates in enhancing the effects of IL-27. Using differentiation, luciferase, and real time quantitative PCR assays, we show that IL-27 promotes osteoblast differentiation, reduces expression of osteoblast inhibitory genes, and reduces osteoclast differentiation, and results suggest a potential coordination with TGFbeta/BMP/SMAD and JAK/STAT pathways. We selected miRNA regulators of these and related pathways to examine whether the effects of IL-27 could be augmented for therapeutic applications. miR-29b and miR-21 augmented IL-27 proosteogenic while downregulating osteoclastogenic signals and also worked to reduce inflammatory signaling in activated macrophages, while miR-21 and miR-20b worked with IL-27 to reduce inflammatory gene expression in fibroblasts and T cells. It appears that several miRNAs can be utilized to enhance IL-27's impact on modulating osteogenesis and reducing proinflammatory signaling.

Filkova, M., B. Aradi, et al. (2014). "Association of circulating miR-223 and miR-16 with disease activity in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis." Ann Rheum Dis 73(10): 1898-1904. BACKGROUND: Identification of parameters for early diagnosis and treatment response would be beneficial for patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (ERA) to prevent ongoing joint damage. miRNAs have features of potential biomarkers, and an altered expression of miRNAs was shown in established rheumatoid arthritis (RA). OBJECTIVE: To analyse RA associated miRNAs in the sera of patients with ERA to find markers of early disease, clinical activity or predictors of disease outcome. METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from whole sera in ERA patients (prior to and after 3 and 12 months of therapy with disease modifying antirheumatic drugs), in patients with established RA and in healthy controls (HC) using phenol-chloroform extraction. Expression of miR-146a, miR-155, miR-223, miR-16, miR-203, miR-132 and miR-124a was analysed by TaqMan Real Time PCR. RESULTS: From all analysed miRNAs, levels of miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-16 were decreased in the sera of ERA patients in comparison with established RA. A change in circulating miR-16 in the first 3 months of therapy was associated with a decrease in DAS28 in long term follow-up in ERA (p=0.002). Levels of circulating miR-223 in treatment naive ERA correlated with C reactive protein (p=0.008), DAS28 (p=0.031) and change in DAS28 after 3 months (p=0.003) and 12 months (p=0.011) of follow-up. However, neither miR-16 nor miR-223 could distinguish ERA from HC. CONCLUSIONS: Differential expression of circulating miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-16 in the sera of ERA patients may characterise an early stage of the disease. We suggest miR-223 as a marker of disease activity and miR-16 and miR-223 as possible predictors for disease outcome in ERA.. BACKGROUND: Identification of parameters for early diagnosis and treatment response would be beneficial for patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (ERA) to prevent ongoing joint damage. miRNAs have features of potential biomarkers, and an altered expression of miRNAs was shown in established rheumatoid arthritis (RA). OBJECTIVE: To analyse RA associated miRNAs in the sera of patients with ERA to find markers of early disease, clinical activity or predictors of disease outcome. METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from whole sera in ERA patients (prior to and after 3 and 12 months of therapy with disease modifying antirheumatic drugs), in patients with established RA and in healthy controls (HC) using phenol-chloroform extraction. Expression of miR-146a, miR-155, miR-223, miR-16, miR-203, miR-132 and miR-124a was analysed by TaqMan Real Time PCR. RESULTS: From all analysed miRNAs, levels of miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-16 were decreased in the sera of ERA patients in comparison with established RA. A change in circulating miR-16 in the first 3 months of therapy was associated with a decrease in DAS28 in long term follow-up in ERA (p=0.002). Levels of circulating miR-223 in treatment naive ERA correlated with C reactive protein (p=0.008), DAS28 (p=0.031) and change in DAS28 after 3 months (p=0.003) and 12 months (p=0.011) of follow-up. However, neither miR-16 nor miR-223 could distinguish ERA from HC. CONCLUSIONS: Differential expression of circulating miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-16 in the sera of ERA patients may characterise an early stage of the disease. We suggest miR-223 as a marker of disease activity and miR-16 and miR-223 as possible predictors for disease outcome in ERA.

Frank-Bertoncelj, M. and S. Gay (2014). "The epigenome of synovial fibroblasts: an underestimated therapeutic target in rheumatoid arthritis." Arthritis Res Ther 16(3): 117. Perturbed epigenetic landscape and deregulated microRNA networks are central to the permanent activation and aggressiveness of synovial fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis. Current anti-cytokine therapies, although effectively halting synovitis, cannot reverse the stably activated destructive phenotype of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts,offering rather limited protection against ongoing joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis. Targeting the deregulated epigenome of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts is key to developing joint-protective strategies in rheumatoid arthritis. To date, different pathogenic mechanisms have been identified that can profoundly impact the epigenetic derangements in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts, including increased consumption of S-adenosylmethionine,a principal methyl donor in DNA methylation reactions, together with deregulation of crucial DNA- and histonemodifying enzymes. Re-establishing globally disturbed DNA methylation patterns in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts by supplementing S-adenosylmethionine while preventing its leakage into polyamine cycles may bea promising therapeutic strategy in rheumatoid arthritis and the first epigenetic treatment to target rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts at the scene of the crime. Given the dynamic nature and reversibility of epigenetic modifications, their involvement in human diseases and recent perspectives on epigenetic therapies in cancer, epigenetic targeting of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts should be within future reach.. Perturbed epigenetic landscape and deregulated microRNA networks are central to the permanent activation and aggressiveness of synovial fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis. Current anti-cytokine therapies, although effectively halting synovitis, cannot reverse the stably activated destructive phenotype of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts,offering rather limited protection against ongoing joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis. Targeting the deregulated epigenome of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts is key to developing joint-protective strategies in rheumatoid arthritis. To date, different pathogenic mechanisms have been identified that can profoundly impact the epigenetic derangements in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts, including increased consumption of S-adenosylmethionine,a principal methyl donor in DNA methylation reactions, together with deregulation of crucial DNA- and histonemodifying enzymes. Re-establishing globally disturbed DNA methylation patterns in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts by supplementing S-adenosylmethionine while preventing its leakage into polyamine cycles may bea promising therapeutic strategy in rheumatoid arthritis and the first epigenetic treatment to target rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts at the scene of the crime. Given the dynamic nature and reversibility of epigenetic modifications, their involvement in human diseases and recent perspectives on epigenetic therapies in cancer, epigenetic targeting of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts should be within future reach.

Fu, H., D. Hu, et al. (2018). "Role of extracellular vesicles in rheumatoid arthritis." Mol Immunol 93: 125-132. Cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), playing important roles in antigen presentation, inflammation, angiogenesis, cell-cell signal communication, thrombosis, and articular cartilage extracellular matrix degradation. Understanding the pathogenic mechanism of RA is important for developing therapies. The pathogenic indicators of RA, such as submicron-sized EVs, represent promising biomarkers for evaluating RA activity. This review summarizes the recent advances in understanding the pathogenesis of RA, and sheds light on the pathogenic as well as anti-inflammatory or immunosuppressive roles of EVs. We suggest that EVs could be harnessed as tools for drug delivery or targets for RA therapies.. Cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), playing important roles in antigen presentation, inflammation, angiogenesis, cell-cell signal communication, thrombosis, and articular cartilage extracellular matrix degradation. Understanding the pathogenic mechanism of RA is important for developing therapies. The pathogenic indicators of RA, such as submicron-sized EVs, represent promising biomarkers for evaluating RA activity. This review summarizes the recent advances in understanding the pathogenesis of RA, and sheds light on the pathogenic as well as anti-inflammatory or immunosuppressive roles of EVs. We suggest that EVs could be harnessed as tools for drug delivery or targets for RA therapies.

Fu, L., L. Jin, et al. (2016). "Comprehensive review of genetic association studies and meta-analysis on miRNA polymorphisms and rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus susceptibility." Hum Immunol 77(1): 1-6. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs), small RNA molecules, play a role in the development and differentiation of immune cells in both innate and adaptive immune responses. Our study was aimed to investigate the association between three miRNA polymorphism and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) by using meta-analysis approach. METHODS: A PubMed database search was conducted during August 2013 to identify case-control studies of miRNAs and RA or SLE risk. Two authors independently extracted information on the study design, the characteristics of the study participants, exposure and outcome assessments. The fix-effects and random-effects models were used for the risk estimates by Stata 11.0 software. RESULTS: Our meta-analysis of six case-control studies involving a total of 998 RA cases and 1493 controls identified no significant association between mir-146a rs2910164 and RA, with an overall OR of 0.843 (95% CI=0.642-1.105; CC vs. GG). No association was observed in three studies with a total of 1532 cases and 2168 controls between miR-146a rs2910164 and SLE risk (OR=0.911, 95% CI=0.710-1.171; CC vs. GG). Three studies with a total of 529 cases and 595 controls evaluated the mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism and its association with RA. There was a decreased overall risk of RA under the allelic and genotypic models [OR=0.616, 95% CI=0.384-0.981, (T vs. C allele) and OR=0.386, 95% CI=0.226-0.659, (TT vs. CC)]. Two studies with 4826 cases and 4181 controls evaluated miR-146a rs57095329 and its association with SLE. There was a significant association between miR-146a rs57095329 and SLE (OR=1.263, 95% CI=1.136-1.405, G vs. A allele). CONCLUSIONS: The present meta-analysis suggests important roles for the mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism in RA, especially in the Caucasian population and for miR-146a rs57095329 polymorphism in SLE. Further studies with large sample size are needed to confirm these associations.. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs), small RNA molecules, play a role in the development and differentiation of immune cells in both innate and adaptive immune responses. Our study was aimed to investigate the association between three miRNA polymorphism and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) by using meta-analysis approach. METHODS: A PubMed database search was conducted during August 2013 to identify case-control studies of miRNAs and RA or SLE risk. Two authors independently extracted information on the study design, the characteristics of the study participants, exposure and outcome assessments. The fix-effects and random-effects models were used for the risk estimates by Stata 11.0 software. RESULTS: Our meta-analysis of six case-control studies involving a total of 998 RA cases and 1493 controls identified no significant association between mir-146a rs2910164 and RA, with an overall OR of 0.843 (95% CI=0.642-1.105; CC vs. GG). No association was observed in three studies with a total of 1532 cases and 2168 controls between miR-146a rs2910164 and SLE risk (OR=0.911, 95% CI=0.710-1.171; CC vs. GG). Three studies with a total of 529 cases and 595 controls evaluated the mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism and its association with RA. There was a decreased overall risk of RA under the allelic and genotypic models [OR=0.616, 95% CI=0.384-0.981, (T vs. C allele) and OR=0.386, 95% CI=0.226-0.659, (TT vs. CC)]. Two studies with 4826 cases and 4181 controls evaluated miR-146a rs57095329 and its association with SLE. There was a significant association between miR-146a rs57095329 and SLE (OR=1.263, 95% CI=1.136-1.405, G vs. A allele). CONCLUSIONS: The present meta-analysis suggests important roles for the mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism in RA, especially in the Caucasian population and for miR-146a rs57095329 polymorphism in SLE. Further studies with large sample size are needed to confirm these associations.

Fulci, V., G. Scappucci, et al. (2010). "miR-223 is overexpressed in T-lymphocytes of patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis." Hum Immunol 71(2): 206-211. miRNAs have recently emerged as key regulators of the immune system, being involved in lymphocyte selection and proliferation, in T(reg) cells differentiation, and in hematopoiesis in general. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune pathology the etiology of which is still obscure. Although a multifactorial pathogenesis has been hypothesized, the precise mechanisms leading to the disease are still poorly understood at the molecular level. miRNA expression profile analysis highlighted that miR-223 is the only miRNA that is strikingly deregulated in peripheral T-lymphocytes from RA patients compared with healthy donors. Further analysis by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain analysis confirmed that miR-223 is overexpressed in T-lymphocytes from RA patients (n = 28) compared with healthy donors (n = 10). Moreover, purification of different T-lymphocyte populations from RA patients highlights that miR-223 is expressed at higher levels in naive CD4(+) lymphocytes, whereas its expression is barely detectable in T(h)-17 cells. In summary, our data provide a first characterization of the miRNA expression profiles of peripheral T-lymphocytes of RA patients, identifying miR-223 as overexpressed in CD4(+) naive T-lymphocytes from these individuals. A deeper analysis of the biologic functions and effects of the expression of miR-223 in T-lymphocytes is needed to clarify the exact link between our observation and the disease.. miRNAs have recently emerged as key regulators of the immune system, being involved in lymphocyte selection and proliferation, in T(reg) cells differentiation, and in hematopoiesis in general. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune pathology the etiology of which is still obscure. Although a multifactorial pathogenesis has been hypothesized, the precise mechanisms leading to the disease are still poorly understood at the molecular level. miRNA expression profile analysis highlighted that miR-223 is the only miRNA that is strikingly deregulated in peripheral T-lymphocytes from RA patients compared with healthy donors. Further analysis by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain analysis confirmed that miR-223 is overexpressed in T-lymphocytes from RA patients (n = 28) compared with healthy donors (n = 10). Moreover, purification of different T-lymphocyte populations from RA patients highlights that miR-223 is expressed at higher levels in naive CD4(+) lymphocytes, whereas its expression is barely detectable in T(h)-17 cells. In summary, our data provide a first characterization of the miRNA expression profiles of peripheral T-lymphocytes of RA patients, identifying miR-223 as overexpressed in CD4(+) naive T-lymphocytes from these individuals. A deeper analysis of the biologic functions and effects of the expression of miR-223 in T-lymphocytes is needed to clarify the exact link between our observation and the disease.

Furer, V., J. D. Greenberg, et al. (2010). "The role of microRNA in rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases." Clin Immunol 136(1): 1-15. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of non-coding RNA molecules playing pivotal roles in cellular and developmental processes. miRNAs modulate the expression of multiple target genes at the post-transcriptional level and are predicted to affect up to one-third of all human protein-encoding genes. Recently, miRNA involvement in the adaptive and innate immune systems has been recognized. Rheumatoid arthritis serves an example of a chronic inflammatory disorder in which miRNAs modulate the inflammatory process in the joints, with the potential to serve as biomarkers for both the inflammatory process and the potential for therapeutic response. This review discusses the investigations that led to miRNA discovery, miRNA biogenesis and mode of action, and the diverse roles of miRNAs in modulating the immune and inflammatory responses. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of miRNA biology in rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune disorders.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of non-coding RNA molecules playing pivotal roles in cellular and developmental processes. miRNAs modulate the expression of multiple target genes at the post-transcriptional level and are predicted to affect up to one-third of all human protein-encoding genes. Recently, miRNA involvement in the adaptive and innate immune systems has been recognized. Rheumatoid arthritis serves an example of a chronic inflammatory disorder in which miRNAs modulate the inflammatory process in the joints, with the potential to serve as biomarkers for both the inflammatory process and the potential for therapeutic response. This review discusses the investigations that led to miRNA discovery, miRNA biogenesis and mode of action, and the diverse roles of miRNAs in modulating the immune and inflammatory responses. We conclude with a discussion of the implications of miRNA biology in rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune disorders.

Gang, X., H. Xu, et al. (2018). "Treatment effect of CDKN1A on rheumatoid arthritis by mediating proliferation and invasion of fibroblast-like synoviocytes cells." Clin Exp ImmunolOBJECTIVE: The objective of the present study was to evaluate the role of CDKN1A in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: Related gene expression data screened from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were processed with network analysis. Protein-protein interaction was analyzed through string database. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to measure mRNA and microRNA expressions. Cell proliferation and cell cycle were tested by MTT assay and flow cytometry respectively. Transwell migration and invasion assay was used to test cell migration and invasion. RESULTS: CDKN1A screened by bioinformatics methods showed differential expression in RA cells compared with healthy controls (HC), and was at an important position in protein-protein interaction network of RA. Compared with HC group, CDKN1A was down-regulated in human RA synovium tissues and human fibroblast-like synoviocytes (HFLS). Contrary to CDKN1A silencing, CDKN1A overexpression significantly inhibited the proliferation and invasion of HFLS-RA, arrested HFLS-RA in G0/G1 phase, and down-regulated the expressions of TNFalpha and IL6 while up-regulated the expression of IL10. CDKN1A overexpression could also suppress pSTAT1 expression. MiR-146a, highly expressed in RA tissues, could negatively regulate CDKN1A. Anti-146a suppressed cell proliferation and invasion, and at the same time enhanced IL10 expression but inhibited IL6, TNFalpha and pSTAT1 expression. CONCLUSION: The results indicated that CDKN1A overexpression, which could be enhanced by miR-146a suppression, inhibited the proliferation, invasion in HFLS-RA. This was probably a result of suppressed pSTAT1, IL6 and TNFalpha expression and enhanced IL10 expression. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.. OBJECTIVE: The objective of the present study was to evaluate the role of CDKN1A in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: Related gene expression data screened from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were processed with network analysis. Protein-protein interaction was analyzed through string database. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to measure mRNA and microRNA expressions. Cell proliferation and cell cycle were tested by MTT assay and flow cytometry respectively. Transwell migration and invasion assay was used to test cell migration and invasion. RESULTS: CDKN1A screened by bioinformatics methods showed differential expression in RA cells compared with healthy controls (HC), and was at an important position in protein-protein interaction network of RA. Compared with HC group, CDKN1A was down-regulated in human RA synovium tissues and human fibroblast-like synoviocytes (HFLS). Contrary to CDKN1A silencing, CDKN1A overexpression significantly inhibited the proliferation and invasion of HFLS-RA, arrested HFLS-RA in G0/G1 phase, and down-regulated the expressions of TNFalpha and IL6 while up-regulated the expression of IL10. CDKN1A overexpression could also suppress pSTAT1 expression. MiR-146a, highly expressed in RA tissues, could negatively regulate CDKN1A. Anti-146a suppressed cell proliferation and invasion, and at the same time enhanced IL10 expression but inhibited IL6, TNFalpha and pSTAT1 expression. CONCLUSION: The results indicated that CDKN1A overexpression, which could be enhanced by miR-146a suppression, inhibited the proliferation, invasion in HFLS-RA. This was probably a result of suppressed pSTAT1, IL6 and TNFalpha expression and enhanced IL10 expression. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Gantier, M. P., H. J. Stunden, et al. (2012). "A miR-19 regulon that controls NF-kappaB signaling." Nucleic Acids Res 40(16): 8048-8058. Fine-tuning of inflammatory responses by microRNAs (miRNAs) is complex, as they can both enhance and repress expression of pro-inflammatory mediators. In this study, we investigate inflammatory responses following global miRNA depletion, to better define the overall contribution of miRNAs to inflammation. We demonstrate that miRNAs positively regulate Toll-like receptor signaling using inducible Dicer1 deletion and global miRNA depletion. We establish an important contribution of miR-19b in this effect, which potentiates nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity in human and mouse cells. Positive regulation of NF-kappaB signaling by miR-19b involves the coordinated suppression of a regulon of negative regulators of NF-kappaB signaling (including A20/Tnfaip3, Rnf11, Fbxl11/Kdm2a and Zbtb16). Transfection of miR-19b mimics exacerbated the inflammatory activation of rheumatoid arthritis primary fibroblast-like synoviocytes, demonstrating its physiological importance in the pathology of this disease. This study constitutes, to our knowledge, the first description of a miR-19 regulon that controls NF-kappaB signaling, and suggests that targeting this miRNA and linked family members could regulate the activity of NF-kappaB signaling in inflammation.. Fine-tuning of inflammatory responses by microRNAs (miRNAs) is complex, as they can both enhance and repress expression of pro-inflammatory mediators. In this study, we investigate inflammatory responses following global miRNA depletion, to better define the overall contribution of miRNAs to inflammation. We demonstrate that miRNAs positively regulate Toll-like receptor signaling using inducible Dicer1 deletion and global miRNA depletion. We establish an important contribution of miR-19b in this effect, which potentiates nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity in human and mouse cells. Positive regulation of NF-kappaB signaling by miR-19b involves the coordinated suppression of a regulon of negative regulators of NF-kappaB signaling (including A20/Tnfaip3, Rnf11, Fbxl11/Kdm2a and Zbtb16). Transfection of miR-19b mimics exacerbated the inflammatory activation of rheumatoid arthritis primary fibroblast-like synoviocytes, demonstrating its physiological importance in the pathology of this disease. This study constitutes, to our knowledge, the first description of a miR-19 regulon that controls NF-kappaB signaling, and suggests that targeting this miRNA and linked family members could regulate the activity of NF-kappaB signaling in inflammation.

Gao, J., X. L. Zhou, et al. (2016). "microRNA-126 targeting PIK3R2 promotes rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibro-blasts proliferation and resistance to apoptosis by regulating PI3K/AKT pathway." Exp Mol Pathol 100(1): 192-198. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of our study was to elucidate the impact of microRNA-126 (miR-126) targeting PIK3R2 gene on cell proliferation and apoptosis of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibro-blasts (RASFs) by regulating PI3K/AKT signal pathway. METHODS: The synovial tissue samples of this study were from 55 RA patients undergoing joint replacement and 27 healthy people undergoing joint repair due to trauma. The target genes of miR-126 were collected by the TargetScan and PIK3R2 as the direct target gene of miR-126 was confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assay system. Our experiment had five groups including the blank control, miR-126 mimic, miR-126 mimic control, miR-126 inhibitor and miR-126 inhibitor control groups. Additionally, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western-Blot, cell counting kit (CCK-8) and flow cytometry were carried out in this study. RESULTS: Compared with healthy individuals, the RA patients had increased miR-126, but decreased PIK3R2 mRNA expressions in the synovial tissues. Pearson correlation analysis indicated that miR-126 expression was negatively correlated with PIK3R2 mRNA expression (all P<0.05). When compared with the blank group respectively, the miR-126 mimic group had raising cell proportions in S and G2/M phases with reduced rate of cell apoptosis, while the miR-126 inhibitor group had raising cell proportions in G0/G1 and G2/M phases with increased rate of cell apoptosis (all P<0.05). Besides, compared with the blank control group, the miR-126 mimic group had declined expression of PIK3R2 protein with ascended expression of PI3K and p-AKT (all P<0.05), while the miR-126 inhibitor group had increased expression of PIK3R2 protein with decreased expression of PI3K and p-AKT (all P<0.05). CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that down-regulation of miR-126 may indirectly inhibit PI3K/AKT signaling pathway to disrupt the imbalance between growth and death of RASFs by targeting PIK3R2, which may be clinically helpful to find therapeutic strategies directed toward miR-126 function for RA patients.. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of our study was to elucidate the impact of microRNA-126 (miR-126) targeting PIK3R2 gene on cell proliferation and apoptosis of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibro-blasts (RASFs) by regulating PI3K/AKT signal pathway. METHODS: The synovial tissue samples of this study were from 55 RA patients undergoing joint replacement and 27 healthy people undergoing joint repair due to trauma. The target genes of miR-126 were collected by the TargetScan and PIK3R2 as the direct target gene of miR-126 was confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assay system. Our experiment had five groups including the blank control, miR-126 mimic, miR-126 mimic control, miR-126 inhibitor and miR-126 inhibitor control groups. Additionally, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western-Blot, cell counting kit (CCK-8) and flow cytometry were carried out in this study. RESULTS: Compared with healthy individuals, the RA patients had increased miR-126, but decreased PIK3R2 mRNA expressions in the synovial tissues. Pearson correlation analysis indicated that miR-126 expression was negatively correlated with PIK3R2 mRNA expression (all P<0.05). When compared with the blank group respectively, the miR-126 mimic group had raising cell proportions in S and G2/M phases with reduced rate of cell apoptosis, while the miR-126 inhibitor group had raising cell proportions in G0/G1 and G2/M phases with increased rate of cell apoptosis (all P<0.05). Besides, compared with the blank control group, the miR-126 mimic group had declined expression of PIK3R2 protein with ascended expression of PI3K and p-AKT (all P<0.05), while the miR-126 inhibitor group had increased expression of PIK3R2 protein with decreased expression of PI3K and p-AKT (all P<0.05). CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that down-regulation of miR-126 may indirectly inhibit PI3K/AKT signaling pathway to disrupt the imbalance between growth and death of RASFs by targeting PIK3R2, which may be clinically helpful to find therapeutic strategies directed toward miR-126 function for RA patients.

Glinsky, G. V. (2008). "Disease phenocode analysis identifies SNP-guided microRNA maps (MirMaps) associated with human "master" disease genes." Cell Cycle 7(23): 3680-3694. Recently we reported the results of a genome-wide disease phenocode analysis interrogating the relationships between structural features and gene expression patterns of disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and mRNAs of protein-coding genes in association to phenotypes of 15 common human disorders (Cell Cycle 2008;7:2570-83; 3564-76). One of the main implications of this analysis is that transcriptionally co-regulated SNP sequence-bearing RNAs are more likely to exert a cumulative effect in trans on phenotypes. In this work, we test the validity of a disease phenocode concept within a genomic context of distinct continuously spaced sets of disease-linked SNPs and mRNAs of relevant proteincoding genes. We report a sequence homology profiling of two sets of disease-linked SNPs which are located within continuous genomic regions associated with individual protein-coding genetic loci (NLRP1 and STAT4) and are likely to exhibit common profiles of transcriptional activity. Most of microRNAs (15 of 19; 79%) homologous to the NLPRP1-associated disease-linked SNPs have potential protein-coding mRNA targets among the principal components of the nuclear import pathway (NIP) and/or inflammasome pathways, including KPNA1, NLRP1 and NLRP3 genes. We demonstrate that estimates of cumulative targeting effects of microRNAs on mRNAs within distinct allelic contexts of disease-linked SNPs are in agreement with microarray analysis-defined gene expression phenotypes associated with human genotypes of Crohn's disease (CD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) populations. Microarray experiments and disease phenocode analysis identify ten-gene expression signatures which seem to reflect the activated status of disease-linked SNPs/microRNAs/mRNAs axis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of 66% CD patients and 80% RA patients. Comparisons of ten-gene signature expression profiles and NLRP3/NLRP1 mRNA expression ratios in PBMC of individual CD and RA patients and control subjects indicate that measurements of these markers may be useful for diagnostic applications. Our findings demonstrate that NLPRP1- and STAT4-associated disease-linked SNPs have common sequence-defined features which are recapitulating the essential phenotype-affecting features of genome-wide disease-linked SNPs, suggesting that NLRP1 (NALP1) and STAT4 genetic loci may constitute "master" disease genes. We conclude that both genome-wide SNP variations and SNP polymorphisms associated with "master" disease genes may cause similar genetically-defined malfunctions of the NIP and inflammasome/innate immunity pathways which are likely to contribute to pathogenesis of multiple common human disorders.. Recently we reported the results of a genome-wide disease phenocode analysis interrogating the relationships between structural features and gene expression patterns of disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and mRNAs of protein-coding genes in association to phenotypes of 15 common human disorders (Cell Cycle 2008;7:2570-83; 3564-76). One of the main implications of this analysis is that transcriptionally co-regulated SNP sequence-bearing RNAs are more likely to exert a cumulative effect in trans on phenotypes. In this work, we test the validity of a disease phenocode concept within a genomic context of distinct continuously spaced sets of disease-linked SNPs and mRNAs of relevant proteincoding genes. We report a sequence homology profiling of two sets of disease-linked SNPs which are located within continuous genomic regions associated with individual protein-coding genetic loci (NLRP1 and STAT4) and are likely to exhibit common profiles of transcriptional activity. Most of microRNAs (15 of 19; 79%) homologous to the NLPRP1-associated disease-linked SNPs have potential protein-coding mRNA targets among the principal components of the nuclear import pathway (NIP) and/or inflammasome pathways, including KPNA1, NLRP1 and NLRP3 genes. We demonstrate that estimates of cumulative targeting effects of microRNAs on mRNAs within distinct allelic contexts of disease-linked SNPs are in agreement with microarray analysis-defined gene expression phenotypes associated with human genotypes of Crohn's disease (CD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) populations. Microarray experiments and disease phenocode analysis identify ten-gene expression signatures which seem to reflect the activated status of disease-linked SNPs/microRNAs/mRNAs axis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of 66% CD patients and 80% RA patients. Comparisons of ten-gene signature expression profiles and NLRP3/NLRP1 mRNA expression ratios in PBMC of individual CD and RA patients and control subjects indicate that measurements of these markers may be useful for diagnostic applications. Our findings demonstrate that NLPRP1- and STAT4-associated disease-linked SNPs have common sequence-defined features which are recapitulating the essential phenotype-affecting features of genome-wide disease-linked SNPs, suggesting that NLRP1 (NALP1) and STAT4 genetic loci may constitute "master" disease genes. We conclude that both genome-wide SNP variations and SNP polymorphisms associated with "master" disease genes may cause similar genetically-defined malfunctions of the NIP and inflammasome/innate immunity pathways which are likely to contribute to pathogenesis of multiple common human disorders.

Glinsky, G. V. (2008). "An SNP-guided microRNA map of fifteen common human disorders identifies a consensus disease phenocode aiming at principal components of the nuclear import pathway." Cell Cycle 7(16): 2570-2583. Recent large-scale genome-wide association (GWA) studies of SNP variations captured many thousands individual genetic profiles of H. sapiens and facilitated identification of significant genetic traits which are highly likely to influence the pathogenesis of several major human diseases. Here we apply the integrative genomics principles to interrogate relationships between structural features and gene expression patterns of disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and mRNAs of protein-coding genes in association to phenotypes of 15 major human disorders, namely bipolar disease (BD); rheumatoid arthritis (RA); coronary artery disease (CAD); Crohn's disease (CD); type 1 diabetes (T1D); type 2 diabetes (T2D); hypertension (HT); ankylosing spondylitis (AS); Graves' disease (autoimmune thyroid disease; AITD); multiple sclerosis (MS); breast cancer (BC); prostate cancer (PC); systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); vitiligo-associated multiple autoimmune disease (VIT); and ulcerative colitis (UC). We selected for sequence homology profiling a set of approximately 250 SNPs which were unequivocally associated with common human disorders based on multiple independent studies of 220,124 individual samples comprising 85,077 disease cases and 129,506 controls. Our analysis reveals a systematic primary sequence homology/complementarity-driven pattern of associations between disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and protein-coding mRNAs defined here as a human disease phenocode. We utilize this approach to draw SNP-guided microRNA maps of major human diseases and define a consensus disease phenocode for fifteen major human disorders. A consensus disease phenocode comprises 72 SNPs and 18 microRNAs with an apparent propensity to target mRNA sequences derived from a single protein-coding gene, KPNA1. Each of microRNAs in this elite set appears linked to at least three common human diseases and has potential protein-coding mRNA targets among the principal components of the nuclear import pathway. We confirmed the validity of our findings by analyzing independent sets of most significant disease-linked SNPs and demonstrating statistically significant KPNA1-gene expression phenotypes associated with human genotypes of CD, BD, T2D and RA populations. Our analysis supports the idea that variations in DNA sequences associated with multiple human diseases may affect phenotypes in trans via non-protein-coding RNA intermediaries interfering with functions of microRNAs and defines the nuclear import pathway as a potential major target in 15 common human disorders.. Recent large-scale genome-wide association (GWA) studies of SNP variations captured many thousands individual genetic profiles of H. sapiens and facilitated identification of significant genetic traits which are highly likely to influence the pathogenesis of several major human diseases. Here we apply the integrative genomics principles to interrogate relationships between structural features and gene expression patterns of disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and mRNAs of protein-coding genes in association to phenotypes of 15 major human disorders, namely bipolar disease (BD); rheumatoid arthritis (RA); coronary artery disease (CAD); Crohn's disease (CD); type 1 diabetes (T1D); type 2 diabetes (T2D); hypertension (HT); ankylosing spondylitis (AS); Graves' disease (autoimmune thyroid disease; AITD); multiple sclerosis (MS); breast cancer (BC); prostate cancer (PC); systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); vitiligo-associated multiple autoimmune disease (VIT); and ulcerative colitis (UC). We selected for sequence homology profiling a set of approximately 250 SNPs which were unequivocally associated with common human disorders based on multiple independent studies of 220,124 individual samples comprising 85,077 disease cases and 129,506 controls. Our analysis reveals a systematic primary sequence homology/complementarity-driven pattern of associations between disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and protein-coding mRNAs defined here as a human disease phenocode. We utilize this approach to draw SNP-guided microRNA maps of major human diseases and define a consensus disease phenocode for fifteen major human disorders. A consensus disease phenocode comprises 72 SNPs and 18 microRNAs with an apparent propensity to target mRNA sequences derived from a single protein-coding gene, KPNA1. Each of microRNAs in this elite set appears linked to at least three common human diseases and has potential protein-coding mRNA targets among the principal components of the nuclear import pathway. We confirmed the validity of our findings by analyzing independent sets of most significant disease-linked SNPs and demonstrating statistically significant KPNA1-gene expression phenotypes associated with human genotypes of CD, BD, T2D and RA populations. Our analysis supports the idea that variations in DNA sequences associated with multiple human diseases may affect phenotypes in trans via non-protein-coding RNA intermediaries interfering with functions of microRNAs and defines the nuclear import pathway as a potential major target in 15 common human disorders.

Glinsky, G. V. (2008). "SNP-guided microRNA maps (MirMaps) of 16 common human disorders identify a clinically accessible therapy reversing transcriptional aberrations of nuclear import and inflammasome pathways." Cell Cycle 7(22): 3564-3576. We report the results of a disease phenocode analysis interrogating the relationships between structural features and gene expression patterns of disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and mRNAs of protein-coding genes in association to phenotypes of 16 major human disorders, which was enabled by multiple independent studies of up to 451,012 combined samples including 194,258 disease cases and 256,754 controls. SNP sequence homology-guided microRNA maps (MirMaps) identify consensus components of a disease phenocode consisting of 81 SNPs and 17 microRNAs. microRNAs of the consensus set are associated with at least 4 common human diseases (range 4 to 7 diseases) and manifest sequence homology/complementarity to at least 4 distinct disease-linked SNPs (range 4 to 14 SNPs). Nearly all microRNAs (15 of 17; 88%) of the consensus set has potential protein-coding mRNA targets among the principal components of the nuclear import pathway (NIP) and/or inflammasome pathways including KPNA1, NLRP1 (NALP1) and NLRP3 (NALP3) genes. Analysis of expression profiling experiments of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) demonstrates statistically significant KPNA1-, NLRP1- and NLRP3-gene expression phenotypes associated with human genotypes of Crohn's disease (CD), Huntington's disease (HD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) populations. Unexpectedly, microarray analysis of PBMC from patients treated with chloroquine reveals a reversal of disease-linked KPNA1-, NLRP1- and NLRP3-gene expression phenotypes, implying that chloroquine could serve as a readily clinically available drug for targeted correction of identified aberrations. We conclude that genetically-defined malfunctions of the NIP and inflammasome pathways are likely to contribute to pathogenesis of multiple common human disorders and PBMC-based genetic tests may be useful for monitoring the individual's response to therapy. Prescription of chloroquine, an FDA-approved drug which is widely utilized for treatment of malaria, RA and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), may have a therapeutic value in clinical management of a large spectrum of human disorders.. We report the results of a disease phenocode analysis interrogating the relationships between structural features and gene expression patterns of disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and mRNAs of protein-coding genes in association to phenotypes of 16 major human disorders, which was enabled by multiple independent studies of up to 451,012 combined samples including 194,258 disease cases and 256,754 controls. SNP sequence homology-guided microRNA maps (MirMaps) identify consensus components of a disease phenocode consisting of 81 SNPs and 17 microRNAs. microRNAs of the consensus set are associated with at least 4 common human diseases (range 4 to 7 diseases) and manifest sequence homology/complementarity to at least 4 distinct disease-linked SNPs (range 4 to 14 SNPs). Nearly all microRNAs (15 of 17; 88%) of the consensus set has potential protein-coding mRNA targets among the principal components of the nuclear import pathway (NIP) and/or inflammasome pathways including KPNA1, NLRP1 (NALP1) and NLRP3 (NALP3) genes. Analysis of expression profiling experiments of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) demonstrates statistically significant KPNA1-, NLRP1- and NLRP3-gene expression phenotypes associated with human genotypes of Crohn's disease (CD), Huntington's disease (HD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) populations. Unexpectedly, microarray analysis of PBMC from patients treated with chloroquine reveals a reversal of disease-linked KPNA1-, NLRP1- and NLRP3-gene expression phenotypes, implying that chloroquine could serve as a readily clinically available drug for targeted correction of identified aberrations. We conclude that genetically-defined malfunctions of the NIP and inflammasome pathways are likely to contribute to pathogenesis of multiple common human disorders and PBMC-based genetic tests may be useful for monitoring the individual's response to therapy. Prescription of chloroquine, an FDA-approved drug which is widely utilized for treatment of malaria, RA and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), may have a therapeutic value in clinical management of a large spectrum of human disorders.

Greisen, S. R., Y. Yan, et al. (2017). "Extracellular Vesicles Transfer the Receptor Programmed Death-1 in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Front Immunol 8: 851. INTRODUCTION: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been recognized as route of communication in the microenvironment. They transfer proteins and microRNAs (miRNAs) between cells, and possess immunoregulatory properties. However, their role in immune-mediated diseases remains to be elucidated. We hypothesized a role for EVs in the rheumatoid arthritis (RA) joint, potentially involving the development of T cell exhaustion and transfer of the co-inhibitory receptor programmed death 1 (PD-1). METHODS: Synovial fluid mononuclear cells (SFMCs) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients were investigated for PD-1 and other markers of T cell inhibition. EVs were isolated from RA plasma and synovial fluid. In addition, healthy control (HC) and RA PBMCs and SFMCs were cultured to produce EVs. These were isolated and investigated by immunogold electron microscopy (EM) and also co-cultured with lymphocytes and PD-1 negative cells to investigate their functions. Finally, the miRNA expression profiles were assessed in EVs isolated from RA and HC cell cultures. RESULTS: Cells from the RA joint expressed several T cell co-inhibitory receptors, including PD-1, TIM-3, and Tigit. ELISA demonstrated the presence of PD-1 in EVs from RA plasma and synovial fluid. Immunogold EM visualized PD-1 expression by EVs. Co-culturing lymphocytes and the PD-1 negative cell line, U937 with EVs resulted in an induction of PD-1 on these cells. Moreover, EVs from RA PBMCs increased proliferation in lymphocytes when co-cultured with these. All EVs contained miRNAs associated with PD-1 and other markers of T cell inhibition and the content was significantly lower in EVs from RA PBMCs than HC PBMCs. Stimulation of the cells increased the miRNA expression. However, EVs isolated from stimulated RA SFMCs did not change their miRNA expression profile to the same extend. CONCLUSION: EVs carrying both the PD-1 receptor and miRNAs associated with T cell inhibition were present in RA cell cultures. Upon stimulation, these miRNAs failed to be upregulated in EVs from RA SFMCs. This was in line with increased expression of T cell co-inhibitory markers on SFMCs. In conclusion, we suggest EVs to play a significant role in the RA microenvironment, potentially favoring the progression of T cell exhaustion.. INTRODUCTION: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been recognized as route of communication in the microenvironment. They transfer proteins and microRNAs (miRNAs) between cells, and possess immunoregulatory properties. However, their role in immune-mediated diseases remains to be elucidated. We hypothesized a role for EVs in the rheumatoid arthritis (RA) joint, potentially involving the development of T cell exhaustion and transfer of the co-inhibitory receptor programmed death 1 (PD-1). METHODS: Synovial fluid mononuclear cells (SFMCs) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients were investigated for PD-1 and other markers of T cell inhibition. EVs were isolated from RA plasma and synovial fluid. In addition, healthy control (HC) and RA PBMCs and SFMCs were cultured to produce EVs. These were isolated and investigated by immunogold electron microscopy (EM) and also co-cultured with lymphocytes and PD-1 negative cells to investigate their functions. Finally, the miRNA expression profiles were assessed in EVs isolated from RA and HC cell cultures. RESULTS: Cells from the RA joint expressed several T cell co-inhibitory receptors, including PD-1, TIM-3, and Tigit. ELISA demonstrated the presence of PD-1 in EVs from RA plasma and synovial fluid. Immunogold EM visualized PD-1 expression by EVs. Co-culturing lymphocytes and the PD-1 negative cell line, U937 with EVs resulted in an induction of PD-1 on these cells. Moreover, EVs from RA PBMCs increased proliferation in lymphocytes when co-cultured with these. All EVs contained miRNAs associated with PD-1 and other markers of T cell inhibition and the content was significantly lower in EVs from RA PBMCs than HC PBMCs. Stimulation of the cells increased the miRNA expression. However, EVs isolated from stimulated RA SFMCs did not change their miRNA expression profile to the same extend. CONCLUSION: EVs carrying both the PD-1 receptor and miRNAs associated with T cell inhibition were present in RA cell cultures. Upon stimulation, these miRNAs failed to be upregulated in EVs from RA SFMCs. This was in line with increased expression of T cell co-inhibitory markers on SFMCs. In conclusion, we suggest EVs to play a significant role in the RA microenvironment, potentially favoring the progression of T cell exhaustion.

Guo, Q., J. Zhang, et al. (2013). "Forced miR-146a expression causes autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome in mice via downregulation of Fas in germinal center B cells." Blood 121(24): 4875-4883. By inhibiting target gene expression, microRNAs (miRNAs) play major roles in various physiological and pathological processes. miR-146a, a miRNA induced upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation and virus infection, is also highly expressed in patients with immune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome, and psoriasis. Whether the high level of miR-146a contributes to any of these pathogenesis-related processes remains unknown. To elucidate the function of miR-146a in vivo, we generated a transgenic (TG) mouse line overexpressing miR-146a. Starting at an early age, these TG mice developed spontaneous immune disorders that mimicked human autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) with distinct manifestations, including enlarged spleens and lymph nodes, inflammatory infiltration in the livers and lungs, increased levels of double-negative T cells in peripheral blood, and increased serum immunoglobulin G levels. Moreover, with the adoptive transfer approach, we found that the B-cell population was the major etiological factor and that the expression of Fas, a direct target of miR-146a, was significantly dampened in TG germinal center B cells. These results indicate that miR-146a may be involved in the pathogenesis of ALPS by targeting Fas and may therefore serve as a novel therapeutic target.. By inhibiting target gene expression, microRNAs (miRNAs) play major roles in various physiological and pathological processes. miR-146a, a miRNA induced upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation and virus infection, is also highly expressed in patients with immune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome, and psoriasis. Whether the high level of miR-146a contributes to any of these pathogenesis-related processes remains unknown. To elucidate the function of miR-146a in vivo, we generated a transgenic (TG) mouse line overexpressing miR-146a. Starting at an early age, these TG mice developed spontaneous immune disorders that mimicked human autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) with distinct manifestations, including enlarged spleens and lymph nodes, inflammatory infiltration in the livers and lungs, increased levels of double-negative T cells in peripheral blood, and increased serum immunoglobulin G levels. Moreover, with the adoptive transfer approach, we found that the B-cell population was the major etiological factor and that the expression of Fas, a direct target of miR-146a, was significantly dampened in TG germinal center B cells. These results indicate that miR-146a may be involved in the pathogenesis of ALPS by targeting Fas and may therefore serve as a novel therapeutic target.

Haftmann, C., A. B. Stittrich, et al. (2015). "miR-148a is upregulated by Twist1 and T-bet and promotes Th1-cell survival by regulating the proapoptotic gene Bim." Eur J Immunol 45(4): 1192-1205. Repeatedly activated T helper 1 (Th1) cells present during chronic inflammation can efficiently adapt to the inflammatory milieu, for example, by expressing the transcription factor Twist1, which limits the immunopathology caused by Th1 cells. Here, we show that in repeatedly activated murine Th1 cells, Twist1 and T-bet induce expression of microRNA-148a (miR-148a). miR-148a regulates expression of the proapoptotic gene Bim, resulting in a decreased Bim/Bcl2 ratio. Inhibition of miR-148a by antagomirs in repeatedly activated Th1 cells increases the expression of Bim, leading to enhanced apoptosis. Knockdown of Bim expression by siRNA in miR-148a antagomir-treated cells restores viability of the Th1 cells, demonstrating that miR-148a controls survival by regulating Bim expression. Thus, Twist1 and T-bet not only control the differentiation and function of Th1 cells, but also their persistence in chronic inflammation.. Repeatedly activated T helper 1 (Th1) cells present during chronic inflammation can efficiently adapt to the inflammatory milieu, for example, by expressing the transcription factor Twist1, which limits the immunopathology caused by Th1 cells. Here, we show that in repeatedly activated murine Th1 cells, Twist1 and T-bet induce expression of microRNA-148a (miR-148a). miR-148a regulates expression of the proapoptotic gene Bim, resulting in a decreased Bim/Bcl2 ratio. Inhibition of miR-148a by antagomirs in repeatedly activated Th1 cells increases the expression of Bim, leading to enhanced apoptosis. Knockdown of Bim expression by siRNA in miR-148a antagomir-treated cells restores viability of the Th1 cells, demonstrating that miR-148a controls survival by regulating Bim expression. Thus, Twist1 and T-bet not only control the differentiation and function of Th1 cells, but also their persistence in chronic inflammation.

Ham, O., C. Y. Lee, et al. (2014). "Upregulation of miR-23b enhances the autologous therapeutic potential for degenerative arthritis by targeting PRKACB in synovial fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cells from patients." Mol Cells 37(6): 449-456. The use of synovial fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cells (SFMSCs) obtained from patients with degenerative arthropathy may serve as an alternative therapeutic strategy in osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). For treatment of OA and RA patients, autologous transplantation of differentiated MSCs has several beneficial effects for cartilage regeneration including immunomodulatory activity. In this study, we induced chondrogenic differentiation of SFMSCs by inhibiting protein kinase A (PKA) with a small molecule and microRNA (miRNA). Chondrogenic differentiation was confirmed by PCR and immunocytochemistry using probes specific for aggrecan, the major cartilaginous proteoglycan gene. Absorbance of alcian blue stain to detect chondrogenic differentiation was increased in H-89 and/or miRNA-23btransfected cells. Furthermore, expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and MMP-2 was decreased in treated cells. Therefore, differentiation of SFMSCs into chondrocytes through inhibition of PKA signaling may be a therapeutic option for OA or RA patients.. The use of synovial fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cells (SFMSCs) obtained from patients with degenerative arthropathy may serve as an alternative therapeutic strategy in osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). For treatment of OA and RA patients, autologous transplantation of differentiated MSCs has several beneficial effects for cartilage regeneration including immunomodulatory activity. In this study, we induced chondrogenic differentiation of SFMSCs by inhibiting protein kinase A (PKA) with a small molecule and microRNA (miRNA). Chondrogenic differentiation was confirmed by PCR and immunocytochemistry using probes specific for aggrecan, the major cartilaginous proteoglycan gene. Absorbance of alcian blue stain to detect chondrogenic differentiation was increased in H-89 and/or miRNA-23btransfected cells. Furthermore, expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and MMP-2 was decreased in treated cells. Therefore, differentiation of SFMSCs into chondrocytes through inhibition of PKA signaling may be a therapeutic option for OA or RA patients.

Hashemi, M., E. Eskandari-Nasab, et al. (2013). "Association of pre-miRNA-146a rs2910164 and premiRNA-499 rs3746444 polymorphisms and susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis." Mol Med Rep 7(1): 287-291. UNLABELLED: Single nucleotide polymorphisms in premicroRNA (miRNA) may alter miRNA expression levels or processing and contribute to susceptibility in a wide range of diseases. The present study aimed to evaluate the possible association between rs2910164 and rs3746444 of the pre-miRNA (hsa-mir-146a and hsa-mir-499) polymorphisms and susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in an Iranian population. This case-control study was performed on 104 patients with RA and 110 healthy individuals. Tetra amplification refractory mutation system-polymerase chain reaction was used to genotype the hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 and hsa-mir-146a rs2910164 polymorphisms. The hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism was a risk factor for predisposition to RA in codominant [TT vs. TC: odds ratio (OR), 2.11; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.08-4.11; p=0.029; TT vs. CC: OR, 3.88; 95% CI, 1.68-8.98; p=0.002], dominant (TT vs. TC-CC: OR, 2.64; 95% CI, 1.48-4.72; p=0.001) and recessive (TC-CC vs. CC: OR, 3.05; 95% CI, 1.36-6.83; p=0.007) tested inheritance models. In addition, the rs3746444 C allele was a risk factor for RA (OR, 2.49; 95% CI, 1.63-3.81; p<0.0001). No significant difference was found between the groups concerning the rs2910164 polymorphism (chi2=0.348, p=0.841). Our findings demonstrated that the hsa-mir-499 rs3746444, but not mir-146a rs2910164, polymorphism is associated with an increased RA risk in a sample of the Iranian population. Larger studies with different ethnicities are required to validate our findings.. UNLABELLED: Single nucleotide polymorphisms in premicroRNA (miRNA) may alter miRNA expression levels or processing and contribute to susceptibility in a wide range of diseases. The present study aimed to evaluate the possible association between rs2910164 and rs3746444 of the pre-miRNA (hsa-mir-146a and hsa-mir-499) polymorphisms and susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in an Iranian population. This case-control study was performed on 104 patients with RA and 110 healthy individuals. Tetra amplification refractory mutation system-polymerase chain reaction was used to genotype the hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 and hsa-mir-146a rs2910164 polymorphisms. The hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 polymorphism was a risk factor for predisposition to RA in codominant [TT vs. TC: odds ratio (OR), 2.11; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.08-4.11; p=0.029; TT vs. CC: OR, 3.88; 95% CI, 1.68-8.98; p=0.002], dominant (TT vs. TC-CC: OR, 2.64; 95% CI, 1.48-4.72; p=0.001) and recessive (TC-CC vs. CC: OR, 3.05; 95% CI, 1.36-6.83; p=0.007) tested inheritance models. In addition, the rs3746444 C allele was a risk factor for RA (OR, 2.49; 95% CI, 1.63-3.81; p<0.0001). No significant difference was found between the groups concerning the rs2910164 polymorphism (chi2=0.348, p=0.841). Our findings demonstrated that the hsa-mir-499 rs3746444, but not mir-146a rs2910164, polymorphism is associated with an increased RA risk in a sample of the Iranian population. Larger studies with different ethnicities are required to validate our findings.

Hassine, H. B., A. Boumiza, et al. (2017). "Micro RNA-146a But Not IRAK1 is Associated with Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Tunisian Population." Genet Test Mol Biomarkers 21(2): 92-96. BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by the production of an array of proinflammatory cytokines through the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB) signaling pathway. Interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) and Toll-like receptors contain a common cytoplasmic motif the Toll/IL-1R (TIR) homology domain. This motif is required for NF-kappaB activation. IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is a key adapter molecule recruited during the signaling cascade of the TIR. Its gene expression is regulated by the micro-RNA (miR)-146a. OBJECTIVE: We investigated the role of IRAK1 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs3027898 (IRAK1 rs3027898) and miR-146a SNP rs2910164 (miR-146a rs2910164) in Tunisian patients with RA and their association with C reactive protein (CRP), rheumatoid factor (RF), anticyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibodies, and erosion. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a cohort of 172 adult RA patients and 224 matched controls, IRAK1 rs3027898 genotyping was determined by mutagenically separated polymerase chain reaction (MS-PCR) with newly designed primers, and miR-146a rs2910164 genotyping was determined by fragment length polymorphism PCR-restriction (RFLP-PCR). RESULTS: The IRAK1 rs3027898 A allele was detected in 67% of RA patients and 70% of controls indicating that it is not associated with RA in codominant, dominant, or recessive models even after stratification by age and gender. The miR-146a rs2910164 G allele was detected in 76% of RA patients and 68% of controls, thus the C allele confers some protection based on a dominant model [CC+GC (odds ratio (95% confidence interval) = 0.6 (0.3-0.9), p = 0.03)]. No association with CRP, RF, anti-CCP, or erosion was found for either SNPs. CONCLUSION: The IRAK1 rs3027898 was not associated with RA, whereas C allele of miR-146a rs2910164 was found to be protective. Functional studies are required to investigate the exact role of miR-146a rs2910164 during RA.. BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by the production of an array of proinflammatory cytokines through the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB) signaling pathway. Interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) and Toll-like receptors contain a common cytoplasmic motif the Toll/IL-1R (TIR) homology domain. This motif is required for NF-kappaB activation. IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is a key adapter molecule recruited during the signaling cascade of the TIR. Its gene expression is regulated by the micro-RNA (miR)-146a. OBJECTIVE: We investigated the role of IRAK1 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs3027898 (IRAK1 rs3027898) and miR-146a SNP rs2910164 (miR-146a rs2910164) in Tunisian patients with RA and their association with C reactive protein (CRP), rheumatoid factor (RF), anticyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibodies, and erosion. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a cohort of 172 adult RA patients and 224 matched controls, IRAK1 rs3027898 genotyping was determined by mutagenically separated polymerase chain reaction (MS-PCR) with newly designed primers, and miR-146a rs2910164 genotyping was determined by fragment length polymorphism PCR-restriction (RFLP-PCR). RESULTS: The IRAK1 rs3027898 A allele was detected in 67% of RA patients and 70% of controls indicating that it is not associated with RA in codominant, dominant, or recessive models even after stratification by age and gender. The miR-146a rs2910164 G allele was detected in 76% of RA patients and 68% of controls, thus the C allele confers some protection based on a dominant model [CC+GC (odds ratio (95% confidence interval) = 0.6 (0.3-0.9), p = 0.03)]. No association with CRP, RF, anti-CCP, or erosion was found for either SNPs. CONCLUSION: The IRAK1 rs3027898 was not associated with RA, whereas C allele of miR-146a rs2910164 was found to be protective. Functional studies are required to investigate the exact role of miR-146a rs2910164 during RA.

Heegaard, N. H. H., A. L. Carlsen, et al. (2015). "Circulating Extracellular microRNA in Systemic Autoimmunity." EXS 106: 171-195. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are differentially regulated in healthy, activated, inflamed, neoplastic, or otherwise pathological cells and tissues. While their main functions are executed intracellularly, many miRNAs can reproducibly be detected extracellularly in plasma and serum. This circulating, extracellular miRNA is protected against degradation by complexation with carrier proteins and/or by being enclosed in subcellular membrane vesicles. This, together with their tissue- and disease-specific expression, has fuelled the interest in using circulating microRNA profiles as harbingers of disease, i.e., as diagnostic analytes and as clues to dysregulated pathways in disease. Many studies show that inflammation and immune dysregulation, e.g., in autoimmune diseases, are associated with distinct miRNA expression changes in targeted tissues and in innate and adaptive immunity cells such as lymphocytes, natural killer cells, neutrophil granulocytes, and monocyte-macrophages. Exploratory studies (only validated in a few cases) also show that specific profiles of circulating miRNAs are associated with different systemic autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), systemic sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Even though the link between cellular alterations and extracellular profiles is still unpredictable, the data suggest that circulating miRNAs in autoimmunity may become diagnostically useful. Here, we review important circulating miRNAs in animal models of inflammation and in systemic autoimmunity and summarize some proposed functions of miRNAs in immune regulation and dysregulation. We conclude that the studies suggest new hypotheses and additional experiments, and that further diagnostic development is highly dependent on analytical method development and on obtaining sufficient numbers of uniformly processed samples from clinically well-characterized patients and controls.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are differentially regulated in healthy, activated, inflamed, neoplastic, or otherwise pathological cells and tissues. While their main functions are executed intracellularly, many miRNAs can reproducibly be detected extracellularly in plasma and serum. This circulating, extracellular miRNA is protected against degradation by complexation with carrier proteins and/or by being enclosed in subcellular membrane vesicles. This, together with their tissue- and disease-specific expression, has fuelled the interest in using circulating microRNA profiles as harbingers of disease, i.e., as diagnostic analytes and as clues to dysregulated pathways in disease. Many studies show that inflammation and immune dysregulation, e.g., in autoimmune diseases, are associated with distinct miRNA expression changes in targeted tissues and in innate and adaptive immunity cells such as lymphocytes, natural killer cells, neutrophil granulocytes, and monocyte-macrophages. Exploratory studies (only validated in a few cases) also show that specific profiles of circulating miRNAs are associated with different systemic autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), systemic sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Even though the link between cellular alterations and extracellular profiles is still unpredictable, the data suggest that circulating miRNAs in autoimmunity may become diagnostically useful. Here, we review important circulating miRNAs in animal models of inflammation and in systemic autoimmunity and summarize some proposed functions of miRNAs in immune regulation and dysregulation. We conclude that the studies suggest new hypotheses and additional experiments, and that further diagnostic development is highly dependent on analytical method development and on obtaining sufficient numbers of uniformly processed samples from clinically well-characterized patients and controls.

Heinz, G. A. and M. F. Mashreghi (2016). "[Role of non-coding regulatory ribonucleic acids in chronic inflammatory diseases]." Z Rheumatol 75(4): 402-405. Non-coding regulatory ribonucleic acids (RNA), including microRNA, long non-coding RNA and circular RNA, can influence the expression of genes mediating inflammatory processes and therefore affect the course and progression of chronic inflammatory diseases. Recent studies using antisense oligonucleotides suggest that such non-coding regulatory RNAs are suitable as novel therapeutic target molecules for the treatment of inflammatory rheumatic diseases.. Non-coding regulatory ribonucleic acids (RNA), including microRNA, long non-coding RNA and circular RNA, can influence the expression of genes mediating inflammatory processes and therefore affect the course and progression of chronic inflammatory diseases. Recent studies using antisense oligonucleotides suggest that such non-coding regulatory RNAs are suitable as novel therapeutic target molecules for the treatment of inflammatory rheumatic diseases.

Hirai, T., K. Ikeda, et al. (2018). "Circulating plasma microRNA profiling in patients with polymyositis/dermatomyositis before and after treatment: miRNA may be associated with polymyositis/dermatomyositis." Inflamm Regen 38: 1. Background: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the regulation of key biological processes and have been implicated in various diseases, including autoimmune disorders. The pathogenesis of polymyositis (PM) and dermatomyositis (DM) is considered to be mediated by autoimmune reactions. To determine miRNA role in the development and progression of PM and DM, we performed plasma miRNA profiling in PM/DM patients before and after treatment. Methods: Total RNA was isolated from plasma of 10 patients before and after treatment with prednisolone, or, in case of prednisolone resistance or complications, with the combination of calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporine or tacrolims) and/or pulse intravenous cyclophosphamide. The expression of miRNAs was determined using miRNA microarray and validated by qRT-PCR. Results: More differentially expressed miRNAs were found in plasma of DM patients compared to PM patients before and after treatment, and their profiles were different. Among the differentially expressed plasma miRNA identified by microarray, the levels of hsa-miR-4442 were confirmed by qRT-PCR to be significantly decreased by treatment. In addition, plasma hsa-miR-4442 content in active PM/DM significantly exceeded that in other active autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus, as well as in healthy individuals. The level of plasma hsa-miR-4442 was positively correlated with Skeletal Disease Activity in MITAX (Myositis Intention to Treat Activity Index). Conclusion: This is the first report describing plasma miRNA expression profiles in PM/DM patients. The present data suggest that plasma levels of miRNAs may be associated with polymyositis/dermatomyositis and hsa-miR-4442 could be used as a biomarker for PM/DM diagnosis and/or disease activity.. Background: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the regulation of key biological processes and have been implicated in various diseases, including autoimmune disorders. The pathogenesis of polymyositis (PM) and dermatomyositis (DM) is considered to be mediated by autoimmune reactions. To determine miRNA role in the development and progression of PM and DM, we performed plasma miRNA profiling in PM/DM patients before and after treatment. Methods: Total RNA was isolated from plasma of 10 patients before and after treatment with prednisolone, or, in case of prednisolone resistance or complications, with the combination of calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporine or tacrolims) and/or pulse intravenous cyclophosphamide. The expression of miRNAs was determined using miRNA microarray and validated by qRT-PCR. Results: More differentially expressed miRNAs were found in plasma of DM patients compared to PM patients before and after treatment, and their profiles were different. Among the differentially expressed plasma miRNA identified by microarray, the levels of hsa-miR-4442 were confirmed by qRT-PCR to be significantly decreased by treatment. In addition, plasma hsa-miR-4442 content in active PM/DM significantly exceeded that in other active autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus, as well as in healthy individuals. The level of plasma hsa-miR-4442 was positively correlated with Skeletal Disease Activity in MITAX (Myositis Intention to Treat Activity Index). Conclusion: This is the first report describing plasma miRNA expression profiles in PM/DM patients. The present data suggest that plasma levels of miRNAs may be associated with polymyositis/dermatomyositis and hsa-miR-4442 could be used as a biomarker for PM/DM diagnosis and/or disease activity.

Hong, B. K., S. You, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA-143 and -145 modulate the phenotype of synovial fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis." Exp Mol Med 49(8): e363. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) constitute a major cell subset of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovia. Dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) has been implicated in activation and proliferation of RA-FLSs. However, the functional association of various miRNAs with their targets that are characteristic of the RA-FLS phenotype has not been globally elucidated. In this study, we performed microarray analyses of miRNAs and mRNAs in RA-FLSs and osteoarthritis FLSs (OA-FLSs), simultaneously, to validate how dysregulated miRNAs may be associated with the RA-FLS phenotype. Global miRNA profiling revealed that miR-143 and miR-145 were differentially upregulated in RA-FLSs compared to OA-FLSs. miR-143 and miR-145 were highly expressed in independent RA-FLSs. The miRNA-target prediction and network model of the predicted targets identified insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) and semaphorin 3A (SEMA3A) as potential target genes downregulated by miR-143 and miR-145, respectively. IGFBP5 level was inversely correlated with miR-143 expression, and its deficiency rendered RA-FLSs more sensitive to TNFalpha stimulation, promoting IL-6 production and NF-kappaB activity. Moreover, SEMA3A was a direct target of miR-145, as determined by a luciferase reporter assay, antagonizing VEGF165-induced increases in the survival, migration and invasion of RA-FLSs. Taken together, our data suggest that enhanced expression of miR-143 and miR-145 renders RA-FLSs susceptible to TNFalpha and VEGF165 stimuli by downregulating IGFBP5 and SEMA3A, respectively, and that these miRNAs could be therapeutic targets.. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) constitute a major cell subset of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovia. Dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) has been implicated in activation and proliferation of RA-FLSs. However, the functional association of various miRNAs with their targets that are characteristic of the RA-FLS phenotype has not been globally elucidated. In this study, we performed microarray analyses of miRNAs and mRNAs in RA-FLSs and osteoarthritis FLSs (OA-FLSs), simultaneously, to validate how dysregulated miRNAs may be associated with the RA-FLS phenotype. Global miRNA profiling revealed that miR-143 and miR-145 were differentially upregulated in RA-FLSs compared to OA-FLSs. miR-143 and miR-145 were highly expressed in independent RA-FLSs. The miRNA-target prediction and network model of the predicted targets identified insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) and semaphorin 3A (SEMA3A) as potential target genes downregulated by miR-143 and miR-145, respectively. IGFBP5 level was inversely correlated with miR-143 expression, and its deficiency rendered RA-FLSs more sensitive to TNFalpha stimulation, promoting IL-6 production and NF-kappaB activity. Moreover, SEMA3A was a direct target of miR-145, as determined by a luciferase reporter assay, antagonizing VEGF165-induced increases in the survival, migration and invasion of RA-FLSs. Taken together, our data suggest that enhanced expression of miR-143 and miR-145 renders RA-FLSs susceptible to TNFalpha and VEGF165 stimuli by downregulating IGFBP5 and SEMA3A, respectively, and that these miRNAs could be therapeutic targets.

Hruskova, V., R. Jandova, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-125b: association with disease activity and the treatment response of patients with early rheumatoid arthritis." Arthritis Res Ther 18(1): 124. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNAs that regulate gene expression by targeting mRNA. It was proved that some miRNAs are significantly deregulated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). MicroRNA-125b negatively regulates expression of TNF-alpha, which plays a crucial role in RA pathogenesis. The aim of this study was to determine the treatment outcome of patients with early RA based on the expression of circulating and cellular miR-125b. METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from the plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 58 patients with early RA before and three months after treatment initiation and of 54 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC). The expression of miR-125b was measured by TaqMan quantitative PCR. The treatment responders were defined as patients achieving remission or low disease activity (28-joint count disease activity score (DAS28) <3.2). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and stepwise backward multivariable logistic regression analyses of miR-125b expression were used to predict the disease outcome at three and six months after initiation of treatment. RESULTS: The expression of miR-125b in the PBMCs and plasma of treatment-naive early RA patients was significantly lower than that of HC and increased significantly after three months of treatment, particularly in responders. However, only the cellular expression of miR-125b was inversely correlated with disease activity. MiR-125b expression in PBMCs was higher in responders than in non-responders after three months (p = 0.042). Using ROC analysis, the cellular expression of miR-125b, but not the disease activity at baseline, predicted the treatment response after three months of therapy (area under the curve 0.652 (95 % CI 0.510 to 0.793); p = 0.048). CONCLUSION: The expression of miR-125b in PBMCs of treatment-naive patients may present a novel biomarker for monitoring the treatment outcome during the early phase of RA.. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNAs that regulate gene expression by targeting mRNA. It was proved that some miRNAs are significantly deregulated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). MicroRNA-125b negatively regulates expression of TNF-alpha, which plays a crucial role in RA pathogenesis. The aim of this study was to determine the treatment outcome of patients with early RA based on the expression of circulating and cellular miR-125b. METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from the plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 58 patients with early RA before and three months after treatment initiation and of 54 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC). The expression of miR-125b was measured by TaqMan quantitative PCR. The treatment responders were defined as patients achieving remission or low disease activity (28-joint count disease activity score (DAS28) <3.2). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and stepwise backward multivariable logistic regression analyses of miR-125b expression were used to predict the disease outcome at three and six months after initiation of treatment. RESULTS: The expression of miR-125b in the PBMCs and plasma of treatment-naive early RA patients was significantly lower than that of HC and increased significantly after three months of treatment, particularly in responders. However, only the cellular expression of miR-125b was inversely correlated with disease activity. MiR-125b expression in PBMCs was higher in responders than in non-responders after three months (p = 0.042). Using ROC analysis, the cellular expression of miR-125b, but not the disease activity at baseline, predicted the treatment response after three months of therapy (area under the curve 0.652 (95 % CI 0.510 to 0.793); p = 0.048). CONCLUSION: The expression of miR-125b in PBMCs of treatment-naive patients may present a novel biomarker for monitoring the treatment outcome during the early phase of RA.

Hu, J., C. Zhai, et al. (2017). "MiR-23a inhibited IL-17-mediated proinflammatory mediators expression via targeting IKKalpha in articular chondrocytes." Int Immunopharmacol 43: 1-6. The inflammatory cytokine interleukin 17 (IL-17) is an important contributor of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) chronicity. Although several microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to regulate RA pathogenesis, the function of miRNAs in articular chondrocytes during rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis is unclear. Here we showed that miR-23a was downregulated in articular cartilage tissues from rheumatoid arthritis patients. MiR-23a suppressed IL-17 inflammatory cytokine-induced NF-kappaB activation and several proinflammatory mediators expression, such as cytokine IL-6, chemokine MCP-1, and matrix metalloproteinase MMP-3 in articular chondrocytes. Furthermore, we found that the miR-23a expression was inversely correlated with IKKalpha expression in articular cartilage tissues from rheumatoid arthritis patients. We identified that IKKalpha was the direct target of miR-23a and miR-23a inhibited IL-17-mediated proinflammatory mediators expression via targeting the IKKalpha in primary articular chondrocytes. Together, our study provides the first evidence of a role for miR-23a regulated IL-17-mediated proinflammatory mediators expression in rheumatoid arthritis by directly targeting IKKalpha. Our findings provide novel evidence that may be useful for future studies exploring therapeutic approaches for rheumatoid arthritis by targeting miR-23a. Thus, miR-23a may be a common therapeutic target for rheumatoid arthritis.. The inflammatory cytokine interleukin 17 (IL-17) is an important contributor of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) chronicity. Although several microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to regulate RA pathogenesis, the function of miRNAs in articular chondrocytes during rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis is unclear. Here we showed that miR-23a was downregulated in articular cartilage tissues from rheumatoid arthritis patients. MiR-23a suppressed IL-17 inflammatory cytokine-induced NF-kappaB activation and several proinflammatory mediators expression, such as cytokine IL-6, chemokine MCP-1, and matrix metalloproteinase MMP-3 in articular chondrocytes. Furthermore, we found that the miR-23a expression was inversely correlated with IKKalpha expression in articular cartilage tissues from rheumatoid arthritis patients. We identified that IKKalpha was the direct target of miR-23a and miR-23a inhibited IL-17-mediated proinflammatory mediators expression via targeting the IKKalpha in primary articular chondrocytes. Together, our study provides the first evidence of a role for miR-23a regulated IL-17-mediated proinflammatory mediators expression in rheumatoid arthritis by directly targeting IKKalpha. Our findings provide novel evidence that may be useful for future studies exploring therapeutic approaches for rheumatoid arthritis by targeting miR-23a. Thus, miR-23a may be a common therapeutic target for rheumatoid arthritis.

Huang, J., G. Song, et al. (2014). "Elevated miR-29a expression is not correlated with disease activity index in PBMCs of patients with ankylosing spondylitis." Mod Rheumatol 24(2): 331-334. OBJECTIVES: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by new bone formation. Recent evidence suggests that new bone formation in AS may be due to upregulation of Wnt signaling in the osteoblastic pathway secondary to low serum Dickkopf homolog 1 (Dkk-1) levels. And miR-29a orchestrates osteoblast differentiation through direct targeting and negative regulation of Dkk-1. METHODS: We initially validated the expression levels of miR-29a in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of AS patients (n = 30), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients (n = 30) and healthy controls (n = 30) using real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). Correlation analysis was assessed between miR-29a level in PBMCs of AS patients and disease activity indexes, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), Bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index (BASDAI), Bath ankylosing spondylitis function index (BASFI) and modified Stoke ankylosing spondylitis spinal score (mSASSS). RESULTS: Significantly higher expression of miR-29a was observed in PBMCs of AS patients (Ct 9.18 +/- 1.96) compared with that in RA patients (10.97 +/- 0.70, p < 0.001) and healthy controls (Ct 11.45 +/- 1.23, p < 0.001). There was no significant difference between RA patients and healthy controls in miR-29a expression (p > 0.05). Elevated miR-29a expression is not correlated with disease activity index (p > 0.05). A weak correlation was found between elevated miR-29a expression and mSASSS (r = -0.393, p = 0.032). CONCLUSIONS: We report for the first time elevated miR-29a expression in PBMCs of patients with ankylosing spondylitis, and miR-29a might be used as a useful diagnostic marker in new bone formation but cannot reflect disease activity.. OBJECTIVES: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by new bone formation. Recent evidence suggests that new bone formation in AS may be due to upregulation of Wnt signaling in the osteoblastic pathway secondary to low serum Dickkopf homolog 1 (Dkk-1) levels. And miR-29a orchestrates osteoblast differentiation through direct targeting and negative regulation of Dkk-1. METHODS: We initially validated the expression levels of miR-29a in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of AS patients (n = 30), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients (n = 30) and healthy controls (n = 30) using real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). Correlation analysis was assessed between miR-29a level in PBMCs of AS patients and disease activity indexes, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), Bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index (BASDAI), Bath ankylosing spondylitis function index (BASFI) and modified Stoke ankylosing spondylitis spinal score (mSASSS). RESULTS: Significantly higher expression of miR-29a was observed in PBMCs of AS patients (Ct 9.18 +/- 1.96) compared with that in RA patients (10.97 +/- 0.70, p < 0.001) and healthy controls (Ct 11.45 +/- 1.23, p < 0.001). There was no significant difference between RA patients and healthy controls in miR-29a expression (p > 0.05). Elevated miR-29a expression is not correlated with disease activity index (p > 0.05). A weak correlation was found between elevated miR-29a expression and mSASSS (r = -0.393, p = 0.032). CONCLUSIONS: We report for the first time elevated miR-29a expression in PBMCs of patients with ankylosing spondylitis, and miR-29a might be used as a useful diagnostic marker in new bone formation but cannot reflect disease activity.

Huang, Q., S. S. Chen, et al. (2018). "miR-210 expression in PBMCs from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis." Ir J Med Sci 187(1): 243-249. BACKGROUND: In hypoxic conditions, miRNA-210 plays an important role in regulating the expression of hypoxia-inducing factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and the differentiation of T helper 17 (Th17) cells, and this may be involved in the development and function of the immune system. AIMS: This study was to investigate the miR-210 expression levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and its association with the clinical and laboratory features of both diseases. METHODS: Real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was used to detect miR-210 expression levels in PBMCs from 35 patients with SLE, 38 patients with RA, and 35 healthy controls. RESULTS: Compared with the healthy controls, the miR-210 expression levels were significantly increased in patients with SLE (P = 0.001) and there was increased significantly expression of miR-210 in SLE with pleuritis (Z = -2.345, P = 0.019) and anti-SSB/La-positive group (Z = -2.076, P = 0.038). However, we have not found the significant correlation between the miR-210 levels and the Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) score (r s = 0.091, P = 0.602). Although, no significant difference between miR-210 levels in RA patients and those in healthy controls was found (Z = -1.226, P = 0. 220). There was a significant decreased expression of miR-210 in active RA patients than inactive RA patients (Z = -4.011, P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The dysregulation of miR-210 levels in SLE and RA patients suggests that miR-210 might play an important role in the pathogenesis of these diseases.. BACKGROUND: In hypoxic conditions, miRNA-210 plays an important role in regulating the expression of hypoxia-inducing factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and the differentiation of T helper 17 (Th17) cells, and this may be involved in the development and function of the immune system. AIMS: This study was to investigate the miR-210 expression levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and its association with the clinical and laboratory features of both diseases. METHODS: Real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was used to detect miR-210 expression levels in PBMCs from 35 patients with SLE, 38 patients with RA, and 35 healthy controls. RESULTS: Compared with the healthy controls, the miR-210 expression levels were significantly increased in patients with SLE (P = 0.001) and there was increased significantly expression of miR-210 in SLE with pleuritis (Z = -2.345, P = 0.019) and anti-SSB/La-positive group (Z = -2.076, P = 0.038). However, we have not found the significant correlation between the miR-210 levels and the Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) score (r s = 0.091, P = 0.602). Although, no significant difference between miR-210 levels in RA patients and those in healthy controls was found (Z = -1.226, P = 0. 220). There was a significant decreased expression of miR-210 in active RA patients than inactive RA patients (Z = -4.011, P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The dysregulation of miR-210 levels in SLE and RA patients suggests that miR-210 might play an important role in the pathogenesis of these diseases.

Huang, X. L., L. Zhang, et al. (2015). "MicroRNA-150: A potential regulator in pathogens infection and autoimmune diseases." Autoimmunity 48(8): 503-510. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The past studies showed that miR-150 might emerge as a master regulator of gene expression during the immune cells differentiation and immune response process. Its regulation ability in immune cellular process might contribute to the host defense against invading pathogens, and dysregulated expression of miR-150 in immune cells might result in autoimmune diseases. This review summarized that miR-150 could regulate B cells, T cells and NK/iNKT cells differentiation and immune response. And also, this review provides a comprehensive view on the association of miR-150 and autoimmune diseases such as systemic sclerosis (SSc), multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and contact sensitivity. Especially, the duplex role of miR-150 in the fibrosis process might contribute to the pathomechanism of SSc. Though much remains to be explored about the roles of miR-150 in pathogenic infection and autoimmune diseases, targeting miR-150 may serve as a promising therapy strategy.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The past studies showed that miR-150 might emerge as a master regulator of gene expression during the immune cells differentiation and immune response process. Its regulation ability in immune cellular process might contribute to the host defense against invading pathogens, and dysregulated expression of miR-150 in immune cells might result in autoimmune diseases. This review summarized that miR-150 could regulate B cells, T cells and NK/iNKT cells differentiation and immune response. And also, this review provides a comprehensive view on the association of miR-150 and autoimmune diseases such as systemic sclerosis (SSc), multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and contact sensitivity. Especially, the duplex role of miR-150 in the fibrosis process might contribute to the pathomechanism of SSc. Though much remains to be explored about the roles of miR-150 in pathogenic infection and autoimmune diseases, targeting miR-150 may serve as a promising therapy strategy.

Huang, X. L., L. Zhang, et al. (2015). "MicroRNA-150: A potential regulator in pathogens infection and autoimmune diseases." Autoimmunity: 1-8. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The past studies showed that miR-150 might emerge as a master regulator of gene expression during the immune cells differentiation and immune response process. Its regulation ability in immune cellular process might contribute to the host defense against invading pathogens, and dysregulated expression of miR-150 in immune cells might result in autoimmune diseases. This review summarized that miR-150 could regulate B cells, T cells and NK/iNKT cells differentiation and immune response. And also, this review provides a comprehensive view on the association of miR-150 and autoimmune diseases such as systemic sclerosis (SSc), multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and contact sensitivity. Especially, the duplex role of miR-150 in the fibrosis process might contribute to the pathomechanism of SSc. Though much remains to be explored about the roles of miR-150 in pathogenic infection and autoimmune diseases, targeting miR-150 may serve as a promising therapy strategy.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The past studies showed that miR-150 might emerge as a master regulator of gene expression during the immune cells differentiation and immune response process. Its regulation ability in immune cellular process might contribute to the host defense against invading pathogens, and dysregulated expression of miR-150 in immune cells might result in autoimmune diseases. This review summarized that miR-150 could regulate B cells, T cells and NK/iNKT cells differentiation and immune response. And also, this review provides a comprehensive view on the association of miR-150 and autoimmune diseases such as systemic sclerosis (SSc), multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and contact sensitivity. Especially, the duplex role of miR-150 in the fibrosis process might contribute to the pathomechanism of SSc. Though much remains to be explored about the roles of miR-150 in pathogenic infection and autoimmune diseases, targeting miR-150 may serve as a promising therapy strategy.

Hussain, N., W. Zhu, et al. (2018). "Down-regulation of miR-10a-5p promotes proliferation and restricts apoptosis via targeting T-box transcription factor 5 in inflamed synoviocytes." Biosci Rep 38(2)Synoviocytes from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients share certain features with tumor cells, such as over proliferation and invasion. Anomalous microRNA (miRNA) expression may participate in the pathogenesis of RA in different ways. The objective of the present study was to observe the role of miR-10a-5p targeting T-box transcription factor 5 (TBX5) gene on synoviocyte proliferation and apoptosis in RA. Human synovial sarcoma cell line, SW982 cells stimulating with interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) were transfected with miR-10a-5p mimic and siRNA of TBX5. The real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blotting analysis were used to evaluate the expression level of miR-10a-5p and TBX5 in SW982 cells respectively. Further, the proliferation and apoptosis of SW982 cells after treatment were determined by cell counting kit (CCK-8) and flow cytometry analysis respectively. We found that the miR-10a-5p showed down-regulated while TBX5 showed up-regulated expression in synoviocytes after stimulation with IL-1beta. The miR-10a-5p mimic treatment showed a decline in cell proliferation while the increased rate of cell apoptosis as compared with control. Moreover, knockdown of TBX5 favored the apoptosis and reduced the cell proliferation as compared with control group. We conclude that down-regulation of miR-10a-5p promotes proliferation and restricts apoptosis via targeting TBX5 in inflamed synoviocytes.. Synoviocytes from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients share certain features with tumor cells, such as over proliferation and invasion. Anomalous microRNA (miRNA) expression may participate in the pathogenesis of RA in different ways. The objective of the present study was to observe the role of miR-10a-5p targeting T-box transcription factor 5 (TBX5) gene on synoviocyte proliferation and apoptosis in RA. Human synovial sarcoma cell line, SW982 cells stimulating with interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) were transfected with miR-10a-5p mimic and siRNA of TBX5. The real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blotting analysis were used to evaluate the expression level of miR-10a-5p and TBX5 in SW982 cells respectively. Further, the proliferation and apoptosis of SW982 cells after treatment were determined by cell counting kit (CCK-8) and flow cytometry analysis respectively. We found that the miR-10a-5p showed down-regulated while TBX5 showed up-regulated expression in synoviocytes after stimulation with IL-1beta. The miR-10a-5p mimic treatment showed a decline in cell proliferation while the increased rate of cell apoptosis as compared with control. Moreover, knockdown of TBX5 favored the apoptosis and reduced the cell proliferation as compared with control group. We conclude that down-regulation of miR-10a-5p promotes proliferation and restricts apoptosis via targeting TBX5 in inflamed synoviocytes.

Hussain, N., W. Zhu, et al. (2018). "Down-regulation of miR-10a-5p in synoviocytes contributes to TBX5-controlled joint inflammation." J Cell Mol Med 22(1): 241-250. MicroRNAs are considered to play critical roles in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between miR-10a-5p and TBX5 in synoviocytes and evaluate their contribution to joint inflammation. The expression of miR-10a-5p and TBX5 in the synovium of RA and human synovial sarcoma cell line SW982 stimulated by IL-1beta was determined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. The direct interaction between miR-10a-5p and TBX5 3'UTR was determined by dual-luciferase reporter assay in HeLa cells. Mimics and inhibitors of miR-10a-5p were transfected into SW982 cells. TBX5 was overexpressed by plasmid transfection or knocked down by RNAi. Proinflammatory cytokines and TLR3 and MMP13 expressions were determined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. Down-regulated expression of miR-10a-5p and up-regulation of TBX5 in human patients with RA were found compared to patients with OA. IL-1beta could reduce miR-10a-5p and increase TBX5 expression in SW982 cells in vitro. The direct target relationship between miR-10a-5p and 3'UTR of TBX5 was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay. Alterations of miR-10-5p after transfection with its mimic and inhibitor caused the related depression and re-expression of TBX5 and inflammatory factors in SW982 cells. Overexpression of TBX5 after pCMV3-TBX5 plasmid transfection significantly promoted the production of TLR3, MMP13 and various inflammatory cytokines, while this effect was rescued after knocking down of TBX5 with its specific siRNA. We conclude that miR-10a-5p in a relation with TBX5 regulates joint inflammation in arthritis, which would serve as a diagnostic and therapeutic target for RA treatment.. MicroRNAs are considered to play critical roles in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between miR-10a-5p and TBX5 in synoviocytes and evaluate their contribution to joint inflammation. The expression of miR-10a-5p and TBX5 in the synovium of RA and human synovial sarcoma cell line SW982 stimulated by IL-1beta was determined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. The direct interaction between miR-10a-5p and TBX5 3'UTR was determined by dual-luciferase reporter assay in HeLa cells. Mimics and inhibitors of miR-10a-5p were transfected into SW982 cells. TBX5 was overexpressed by plasmid transfection or knocked down by RNAi. Proinflammatory cytokines and TLR3 and MMP13 expressions were determined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. Down-regulated expression of miR-10a-5p and up-regulation of TBX5 in human patients with RA were found compared to patients with OA. IL-1beta could reduce miR-10a-5p and increase TBX5 expression in SW982 cells in vitro. The direct target relationship between miR-10a-5p and 3'UTR of TBX5 was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay. Alterations of miR-10-5p after transfection with its mimic and inhibitor caused the related depression and re-expression of TBX5 and inflammatory factors in SW982 cells. Overexpression of TBX5 after pCMV3-TBX5 plasmid transfection significantly promoted the production of TLR3, MMP13 and various inflammatory cytokines, while this effect was rescued after knocking down of TBX5 with its specific siRNA. We conclude that miR-10a-5p in a relation with TBX5 regulates joint inflammation in arthritis, which would serve as a diagnostic and therapeutic target for RA treatment.

Incorvaia, E., L. Sicouri, et al. (2013). "Hormones and AID: balancing immunity and autoimmunity." Autoimmunity 46(2): 128-137. The human immune system is a complex dynamic network of soluble factors and specialized cells that can and need to act in an instance or keep a lifelong protection, with the consequence that health has to be maintained through genetic and environmental stimuli. Autoimmunity is a multifactorial disease, where this combination of genetic predisposition and environmental factors lead to disease etiology. As some autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or other B cell autoimmunities have a very strong female gender bias, hormones, especially estrogen, have been implicated as environmental factors in driving the disease. One of the key regulators of B cell development is activation-induced deaminase (AID), as its molecular mechanism of cytosine deamination induces immunoglobulin affinity maturation and antibody class switching. In this review we will highlight some of the recent findings of how estrogen directly and indirectly activates AID expression, which in turn can lead to immune hyper-stimulation. Those regulatory pathways can be direct when the estrogen receptor (ER) binds the AID promoter, or indirect via activation of transcription factors that enhance AID expression (e.g., HoxC4). Estrogen's influence on AID will also be discussed in terms of microRNA processing for miRNA-155 and miRNA-181b. Important other external stimuli, such as EBV virus, in conjunction with estrogen can add another layer of regulation during autoimmune disease progression. Understanding these pathways will become more important as AID has now been implicated to play an important role in immune tolerance and actual elimination of autoantibodies.. The human immune system is a complex dynamic network of soluble factors and specialized cells that can and need to act in an instance or keep a lifelong protection, with the consequence that health has to be maintained through genetic and environmental stimuli. Autoimmunity is a multifactorial disease, where this combination of genetic predisposition and environmental factors lead to disease etiology. As some autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or other B cell autoimmunities have a very strong female gender bias, hormones, especially estrogen, have been implicated as environmental factors in driving the disease. One of the key regulators of B cell development is activation-induced deaminase (AID), as its molecular mechanism of cytosine deamination induces immunoglobulin affinity maturation and antibody class switching. In this review we will highlight some of the recent findings of how estrogen directly and indirectly activates AID expression, which in turn can lead to immune hyper-stimulation. Those regulatory pathways can be direct when the estrogen receptor (ER) binds the AID promoter, or indirect via activation of transcription factors that enhance AID expression (e.g., HoxC4). Estrogen's influence on AID will also be discussed in terms of microRNA processing for miRNA-155 and miRNA-181b. Important other external stimuli, such as EBV virus, in conjunction with estrogen can add another layer of regulation during autoimmune disease progression. Understanding these pathways will become more important as AID has now been implicated to play an important role in immune tolerance and actual elimination of autoantibodies.

Iwamoto, N., S. Fukui, et al. (2018). "Osteogenic differentiation of fibroblast-like synovial cells in rheumatoid arthritis is induced by microRNA-218 through a ROBO/Slit pathway." Arthritis Res Ther 20(1): 189. BACKGROUND: Fibroblast-like synovial cells (FLS) have multilineage differentiation potential including osteoblasts. We aimed to investigate the role of microRNAs during the osteogenic differentiation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-FLS. METHODS: RA-FLS were differentiated in osteogenic medium for 21 days. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining and Alizarin Red staining. MicroRNA (miRNA) array analysis was performed to investigate the differentially expressed miRNAs during osteogenic differentiation. Expression of miR-218-5p (miR-218) during the osteogenic differentiation was determined by quantitative real-time PCR. Transfections with an miR-218 precursor and inhibitor were used to confirm the targets of miR-218 and to analyze the ability of miR-218 to induce osteogenic differentiation. Secreted Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) from FLS transfected with miR-218 precursor/inhibitor or roundabout 1 (ROBO1) knockdown FLS established using ROBO1-small interfering RNA (siRNA) were measured by ELISA. RESULTS: The miRNA array revealed that 12 miRNAs were upregulated and 24 miRNAs were downregulated after osteogenic differentiation. We observed that the level of miR-218 rose in the early phase of osteogenic differentiation and then decreased. Pro-inflammatory cytokines modified the expression of miR-218. The induction of miR-218 in RA-FLS decreased ROBO1 expression, and promoted osteogenic differentiation. Both the overexpression of miR-218 and the knockdown of ROBO1 in RA-FLS decreased DKK1 secretion. CONCLUSION: We identified miR-218 as a crucial inducer of the osteogenic differentiation of RA-FLS. MiR-218 modulates the osteogenic differentiation of RA-FLS through the ROBO1/DKK-1 axis. The induction of the osteogenic differentiation of proliferating RA-FLS through the provision of miR-218 into RA-FLS or by boosting the cellular reservoir of miR-218 might thus become a therapeutic strategy for RA.. BACKGROUND: Fibroblast-like synovial cells (FLS) have multilineage differentiation potential including osteoblasts. We aimed to investigate the role of microRNAs during the osteogenic differentiation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-FLS. METHODS: RA-FLS were differentiated in osteogenic medium for 21 days. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining and Alizarin Red staining. MicroRNA (miRNA) array analysis was performed to investigate the differentially expressed miRNAs during osteogenic differentiation. Expression of miR-218-5p (miR-218) during the osteogenic differentiation was determined by quantitative real-time PCR. Transfections with an miR-218 precursor and inhibitor were used to confirm the targets of miR-218 and to analyze the ability of miR-218 to induce osteogenic differentiation. Secreted Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) from FLS transfected with miR-218 precursor/inhibitor or roundabout 1 (ROBO1) knockdown FLS established using ROBO1-small interfering RNA (siRNA) were measured by ELISA. RESULTS: The miRNA array revealed that 12 miRNAs were upregulated and 24 miRNAs were downregulated after osteogenic differentiation. We observed that the level of miR-218 rose in the early phase of osteogenic differentiation and then decreased. Pro-inflammatory cytokines modified the expression of miR-218. The induction of miR-218 in RA-FLS decreased ROBO1 expression, and promoted osteogenic differentiation. Both the overexpression of miR-218 and the knockdown of ROBO1 in RA-FLS decreased DKK1 secretion. CONCLUSION: We identified miR-218 as a crucial inducer of the osteogenic differentiation of RA-FLS. MiR-218 modulates the osteogenic differentiation of RA-FLS through the ROBO1/DKK-1 axis. The induction of the osteogenic differentiation of proliferating RA-FLS through the provision of miR-218 into RA-FLS or by boosting the cellular reservoir of miR-218 might thus become a therapeutic strategy for RA.

Jiang, C., W. Zhu, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA-26a negatively regulates toll-like receptor 3 expression of rat macrophages and ameliorates pristane induced arthritis in rats." Arthritis Res Ther 16(1): R9. INTRODUCTION: Abnormal toll-like receptor (TLR)3 signaling plays an indispensable role in pathogenesis of both experimental and human rheumatoid arthritis, and microRNAs (miRNAs) might orchestrate this signaling pathway. This study was performed to determine the relationship between miR-26a and TLR3 in rat macrophages and to observe effects of miR-26a mimic on pristane induced arthritis (PIA) in rats. METHODS: Dual luciferase reporter assay was used to validate the direct interaction between miR-26a (a candidate miRNA to target tlr3 mRNA) and tlr3 3'UTR. MiR-26a regulation on TLR3 gene expression was determined using RT-qPCR and Western blotting after miR-26a mimics and inhibitors were transfected into rat macrophage line NR8383 cells. Poly I:C (TLR3 ligand) was used to trigger TLR3 activation, and mRNA expression of its downstream cytokines interferon (ifn)-beta and tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-alpha was accordingly detected to determine the regulation of TLR3 signaling. Expressions of TLR3 and miR-26a were detected during rat bone marrow derived macrophage (BMDM) induction, in pristane stimulated NR8383 cells and spleens from methotrexate (MTX) treated PIA rats. A miR-26a mimic was administrated intraperitoneally to PIA rats, and arthritis severity was evaluated by macroscopic or microscopic observations. RESULTS: Direct target relationship between miR-26a and tlr3 mRNA in rats was confirmed. Modifications of miR-26a function by transfection of miR-26a mimics and inhibitors exhibited corresponding repression and augmentation of TLR3 and its signaling downstream cytokine expressions in NR8383 cells. The alteration of miR-26a expression was negatively related with TLR3 expression during BMDM induction, in pristane-primed NR8383 cells and PIA rat spleens. Moreover, both abnormal expressions were rescued in MTX treated arthritis rat spleens. The miR-26a mimic treatment displayed the depression of TLR3 expression and ameliorated the disease severity in the rats with pristane induced arthritis. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-26a negatively regulates TLR3 signaling via targeting of TLR3 itself in rat macrophages, and this finding provides a novel insight into abnormal TLR3 overexpression during experimental arthritis.. INTRODUCTION: Abnormal toll-like receptor (TLR)3 signaling plays an indispensable role in pathogenesis of both experimental and human rheumatoid arthritis, and microRNAs (miRNAs) might orchestrate this signaling pathway. This study was performed to determine the relationship between miR-26a and TLR3 in rat macrophages and to observe effects of miR-26a mimic on pristane induced arthritis (PIA) in rats. METHODS: Dual luciferase reporter assay was used to validate the direct interaction between miR-26a (a candidate miRNA to target tlr3 mRNA) and tlr3 3'UTR. MiR-26a regulation on TLR3 gene expression was determined using RT-qPCR and Western blotting after miR-26a mimics and inhibitors were transfected into rat macrophage line NR8383 cells. Poly I:C (TLR3 ligand) was used to trigger TLR3 activation, and mRNA expression of its downstream cytokines interferon (ifn)-beta and tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-alpha was accordingly detected to determine the regulation of TLR3 signaling. Expressions of TLR3 and miR-26a were detected during rat bone marrow derived macrophage (BMDM) induction, in pristane stimulated NR8383 cells and spleens from methotrexate (MTX) treated PIA rats. A miR-26a mimic was administrated intraperitoneally to PIA rats, and arthritis severity was evaluated by macroscopic or microscopic observations. RESULTS: Direct target relationship between miR-26a and tlr3 mRNA in rats was confirmed. Modifications of miR-26a function by transfection of miR-26a mimics and inhibitors exhibited corresponding repression and augmentation of TLR3 and its signaling downstream cytokine expressions in NR8383 cells. The alteration of miR-26a expression was negatively related with TLR3 expression during BMDM induction, in pristane-primed NR8383 cells and PIA rat spleens. Moreover, both abnormal expressions were rescued in MTX treated arthritis rat spleens. The miR-26a mimic treatment displayed the depression of TLR3 expression and ameliorated the disease severity in the rats with pristane induced arthritis. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-26a negatively regulates TLR3 signaling via targeting of TLR3 itself in rat macrophages, and this finding provides a novel insight into abnormal TLR3 overexpression during experimental arthritis.

Jiang, Z., J. H. Tao, et al. (2017). "The correlation between miR-200c and the severity of interstitial lung disease associated with different connective tissue diseases." Scand J Rheumatol 46(2): 122-129. OBJECTIVES: To explore the correlation between microRNA (miR)-200c and the severity of interstitial lung disease (ILD) associated with connective tissue diseases (CTDs). METHOD: We recruited 218 patients with CTDs who were evaluated with high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and the pulmonary function test (PFT). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were acquired from 23 patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), 29 with dermatomyositis/polymyositis (DM/PM), 30 with primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS), 47 with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and 23 normal controls to detect the expression level of miR-200c by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR). miR-200c levels were compared among the different disease groups, between the group with ILD (CTD+ILD) and the group without ILD (CTD-ILD), and between mild and severe ILD groups. Forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) were compared among the different CTD groups and the different CTD+ILD groups. RESULTS: The miR-200c level in the SSc group was significantly higher than in the DM/PM, pSS, and RA groups, and the levels in the DM/PM and pSS groups were significantly higher than in the RA group. The level of miR-200c in the CTD+ILD group was significantly higher than in the CTD-ILD group, and the level in the severe ILD group was significantly higher than in the mild ILD group. FVC and FEV1 were significantly different among the different CTD groups, and among the different CTD+ILD groups. There was a negative correlation between the level of miR-200c and FVC and FEV1. CONCLUSIONS: The level of miR-200c was positively correlated with the severity of ILD, and miR-200c in PBMCs could be a biomarker of the severity of ILD in CTDs.. OBJECTIVES: To explore the correlation between microRNA (miR)-200c and the severity of interstitial lung disease (ILD) associated with connective tissue diseases (CTDs). METHOD: We recruited 218 patients with CTDs who were evaluated with high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and the pulmonary function test (PFT). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were acquired from 23 patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), 29 with dermatomyositis/polymyositis (DM/PM), 30 with primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS), 47 with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and 23 normal controls to detect the expression level of miR-200c by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR). miR-200c levels were compared among the different disease groups, between the group with ILD (CTD+ILD) and the group without ILD (CTD-ILD), and between mild and severe ILD groups. Forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) were compared among the different CTD groups and the different CTD+ILD groups. RESULTS: The miR-200c level in the SSc group was significantly higher than in the DM/PM, pSS, and RA groups, and the levels in the DM/PM and pSS groups were significantly higher than in the RA group. The level of miR-200c in the CTD+ILD group was significantly higher than in the CTD-ILD group, and the level in the severe ILD group was significantly higher than in the mild ILD group. FVC and FEV1 were significantly different among the different CTD groups, and among the different CTD+ILD groups. There was a negative correlation between the level of miR-200c and FVC and FEV1. CONCLUSIONS: The level of miR-200c was positively correlated with the severity of ILD, and miR-200c in PBMCs could be a biomarker of the severity of ILD in CTDs.

Jimenez-Morales, S., R. Gamboa-Becerra, et al. (2012). "MiR-146a polymorphism is associated with asthma but not with systemic lupus erythematosus and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in Mexican patients." Tissue Antigens 80(4): 317-321. Extensive research has shown that aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) plays an important role in innate and adaptive immune responses. The rs2910164 polymorphism has been identified as a functional variant, which affects the transcription and expression level of miR-146a and, thereby, contributes to the pathogenesis of several inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. To investigate whether the rs2910164 G/C polymorphism was associated with asthma, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), we performed an association study in a pediatric Mexican cohort. We included 979 pediatric patients (asthma: 402, SLE: 367 and JRA: 210) and 531 control subjects without inflammatory or immune diseases. Genotyping was performed using the 5' exonuclease technique. The genotype distribution of the rs2910164 polymorphism was in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in each group. No significant differences were detected in the distribution of this polymorphism between cases and controls (P = 0.108, 0.609 and 0.553 for subjects with asthma, JRA and SLE, respectively). However, stratification by gender showed a statistically significant difference between asthmatic and control females, where the C allele was significantly associated with protection to asthma (odds ratio = 0.694, 95% confidence interval 0.519-0.929, P = 0.0138). Our results provide evidence that rs2910164 may play a role in the susceptibility to childhood-onset asthma, but not SLE or JRA in Mexicans. Further association studies may contribute to determining the role of miR-146a single-nucleotide polymorphisms in immune-mediated diseases.. Extensive research has shown that aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) plays an important role in innate and adaptive immune responses. The rs2910164 polymorphism has been identified as a functional variant, which affects the transcription and expression level of miR-146a and, thereby, contributes to the pathogenesis of several inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. To investigate whether the rs2910164 G/C polymorphism was associated with asthma, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA), we performed an association study in a pediatric Mexican cohort. We included 979 pediatric patients (asthma: 402, SLE: 367 and JRA: 210) and 531 control subjects without inflammatory or immune diseases. Genotyping was performed using the 5' exonuclease technique. The genotype distribution of the rs2910164 polymorphism was in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in each group. No significant differences were detected in the distribution of this polymorphism between cases and controls (P = 0.108, 0.609 and 0.553 for subjects with asthma, JRA and SLE, respectively). However, stratification by gender showed a statistically significant difference between asthmatic and control females, where the C allele was significantly associated with protection to asthma (odds ratio = 0.694, 95% confidence interval 0.519-0.929, P = 0.0138). Our results provide evidence that rs2910164 may play a role in the susceptibility to childhood-onset asthma, but not SLE or JRA in Mexicans. Further association studies may contribute to determining the role of miR-146a single-nucleotide polymorphisms in immune-mediated diseases.

Jin, S., H. Chen, et al. (2018). "Maresin 1 improves the Treg/Th17 imbalance in rheumatoid arthritis through miR-21." Ann Rheum DisOBJECTIVE: Treg/Th17 imbalance plays an important role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Maresin 1 (MaR1) prompts inflammation resolution and regulates immune responses. We explored the effect of MaR1 on RA progression and investigated the correlation between MaR1 and Treg/Th17 balance. METHODS: Both patients with RA and healthy controls were recruited into the study. Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model was constructed to detect the clinical score, histopathological changes and Treg/Th17 ratio. Purified naive CD4+ T-cells were used to study the effect of MaR1 on its differentiation process and microRNA microarray studies were performed to investigate MaR1 downstream microRNAs in this process. MicroRNA transfection experiments were conducted by lentivirus to verify the mechanism of MaR1 on Treg/Th17 balance. RESULTS: Compared with controls, the MaR1 concentration was higher in the patients with inactive RA and lower in the patients with active RA. Expression of the Treg transcription factor FoxP3 was the highest in inactive RA and the lowest in active RA, while the Th17 transcription factor RORc showed a reverse trend. An inverse correlation was observed between the FoxP3/RORc ratio and Disease Activity Score 28. Intervention of MaR1 in the CIA model reduced joint inflammation and damage, and improved the imbalanced Treg/Th17 ratio. MaR1 increased Treg cells proportion while reduced Th17 cells proportion under specific differentiation conditions. Furthermore, miR-21 was verified as MaR1 downstream microRNA, which was upregulated by MaR1, modulating the Treg/Th17 balance and thus ameliorating the RA progression. CONCLUSIONS: MaR1 is a therapeutic target for RA, likely operating through effects on the imbalanced Treg/Th17 ratio found in the disease.. OBJECTIVE: Treg/Th17 imbalance plays an important role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Maresin 1 (MaR1) prompts inflammation resolution and regulates immune responses. We explored the effect of MaR1 on RA progression and investigated the correlation between MaR1 and Treg/Th17 balance. METHODS: Both patients with RA and healthy controls were recruited into the study. Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model was constructed to detect the clinical score, histopathological changes and Treg/Th17 ratio. Purified naive CD4+ T-cells were used to study the effect of MaR1 on its differentiation process and microRNA microarray studies were performed to investigate MaR1 downstream microRNAs in this process. MicroRNA transfection experiments were conducted by lentivirus to verify the mechanism of MaR1 on Treg/Th17 balance. RESULTS: Compared with controls, the MaR1 concentration was higher in the patients with inactive RA and lower in the patients with active RA. Expression of the Treg transcription factor FoxP3 was the highest in inactive RA and the lowest in active RA, while the Th17 transcription factor RORc showed a reverse trend. An inverse correlation was observed between the FoxP3/RORc ratio and Disease Activity Score 28. Intervention of MaR1 in the CIA model reduced joint inflammation and damage, and improved the imbalanced Treg/Th17 ratio. MaR1 increased Treg cells proportion while reduced Th17 cells proportion under specific differentiation conditions. Furthermore, miR-21 was verified as MaR1 downstream microRNA, which was upregulated by MaR1, modulating the Treg/Th17 balance and thus ameliorating the RA progression. CONCLUSIONS: MaR1 is a therapeutic target for RA, likely operating through effects on the imbalanced Treg/Th17 ratio found in the disease.

Jing, W., X. Zhang, et al. (2015). "CRISPR/CAS9-Mediated Genome Editing of miRNA-155 Inhibits Proinflammatory Cytokine Production by RAW264.7 Cells." Biomed Res Int 2015: 326042. MicroRNA 155 (miR-155) is a key proinflammatory regulator in clinical and experimental rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here we generated a miR-155 genome knockout (GKO) RAW264.7 macrophage cell line using the clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CAS9) technology. While upregulating the Src homology-2 domain-containing inositol 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1), the miR-155 GKO line is severely impaired in producing proinflammatory cytokines but slightly increased in osteoclastogenesis upon treatment with receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL). Taken together, our results suggest that genome editing of miR-155 holds the potential as a therapeutic strategy in RA.. MicroRNA 155 (miR-155) is a key proinflammatory regulator in clinical and experimental rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here we generated a miR-155 genome knockout (GKO) RAW264.7 macrophage cell line using the clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CAS9) technology. While upregulating the Src homology-2 domain-containing inositol 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1), the miR-155 GKO line is severely impaired in producing proinflammatory cytokines but slightly increased in osteoclastogenesis upon treatment with receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL). Taken together, our results suggest that genome editing of miR-155 holds the potential as a therapeutic strategy in RA.

Jinnin, M. (2011). "[microRNA in autoimmune disorders]." Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi 34(6): 439-446. microRNAs, short ribonucleic acid molecules which is typically 20-25 nucleotides long, can bind to complementary sequences in the three prime untranslated regions of target mRNAs, leading to the inhibition of translation or degradation of the mRNA. Theologically, human genome may have more than 1000 microRNAs, which target about 60% of human mRNAs. Thus, microRNAs have been implicated in the pathogenesis of various disorders. This paper discusses the present day understanding about the expression and role in various autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren syndrome, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, type I diabetis, and psoriasis. For example, the expression of miR-29, which targets type I collagen mRNA, is reported to be down-regulated in cultured dermal fibroblasts derived from scleroderma skin, contributing to excessive collagen production in this disease. Supplementation of the microRNA results in the decrease of collagen expression in scleroderma fibroblasts. In addition, serum miR-29a levels are significantly decreased in the very early stage of scleroderma. Investigation of the involvement of microRNAs in the pathogenesis of each autoimmune disease may lead to develop new biomarker and new therapeutic approach.. microRNAs, short ribonucleic acid molecules which is typically 20-25 nucleotides long, can bind to complementary sequences in the three prime untranslated regions of target mRNAs, leading to the inhibition of translation or degradation of the mRNA. Theologically, human genome may have more than 1000 microRNAs, which target about 60% of human mRNAs. Thus, microRNAs have been implicated in the pathogenesis of various disorders. This paper discusses the present day understanding about the expression and role in various autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren syndrome, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, type I diabetis, and psoriasis. For example, the expression of miR-29, which targets type I collagen mRNA, is reported to be down-regulated in cultured dermal fibroblasts derived from scleroderma skin, contributing to excessive collagen production in this disease. Supplementation of the microRNA results in the decrease of collagen expression in scleroderma fibroblasts. In addition, serum miR-29a levels are significantly decreased in the very early stage of scleroderma. Investigation of the involvement of microRNAs in the pathogenesis of each autoimmune disease may lead to develop new biomarker and new therapeutic approach.

Kanwal, N., P. John, et al. (2013). "MicroRNA-155 as a therapeutic target for inflammatory diseases." Rheumatol Int 33(3): 557-560. MicroRNAs are short non-coding molecules expressed in different tissues and regulate the transcription of different genes. They are highly specific in their action. Upregulation or downregulation of specific microRNAs has been observed during different diseases like cancers, embryogenesis, organogenesis, apoptosis and arthritis. They are also known to be involved in autoimmune diseases. MicroRNAs are also found to be stable and easy to validate. Differential expression of microRNA-155 has been studied by different groups in inflammatory diseases including arthritis along with other miRNAs. This suggests that it can be used as a potential biomarker or therapeutic in the autoimmune diseases, especially rheumatoid arthritis. Experimental studies are needed to explore their role as biomarker or therapeutic.. MicroRNAs are short non-coding molecules expressed in different tissues and regulate the transcription of different genes. They are highly specific in their action. Upregulation or downregulation of specific microRNAs has been observed during different diseases like cancers, embryogenesis, organogenesis, apoptosis and arthritis. They are also known to be involved in autoimmune diseases. MicroRNAs are also found to be stable and easy to validate. Differential expression of microRNA-155 has been studied by different groups in inflammatory diseases including arthritis along with other miRNAs. This suggests that it can be used as a potential biomarker or therapeutic in the autoimmune diseases, especially rheumatoid arthritis. Experimental studies are needed to explore their role as biomarker or therapeutic.

Karouzakis, E., R. E. Gay, et al. (2009). "Epigenetic control in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts." Nat Rev Rheumatol 5(5): 266-272. Rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) are the effector cells of cartilage and bone destruction. These cells show an 'intrinsically' activated and aggressive phenotype that results in the increased production of matrix-degrading enzymes and adhesion molecules, and is conserved over long-term passage in vitro. The three main mechanisms of epigenetic control -- DNA methylation, histone modifications and microRNA activity -- interact in the development of the RASF phenotype. The extent of global DNA methylation is reduced in synoviocytes in situ and RASFs in vitro. In addition, histone hyperacetylation occurs and specific microRNAs are expressed in RASFs. Normal synovial fibroblasts cultured in a hypomethylating milieu acquire an activated phenotype similar to that of RASFs. These findings suggest that epigenetic control, in particular the control of DNA methylation, is deficient in RASFs. Genome-wide analyses of the epigenome will enable the detection of additional genes involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis, the identification of epigenetic biomarkers, and potentially the development of a therapeutic regimen that targets activated RASFs.. Rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) are the effector cells of cartilage and bone destruction. These cells show an 'intrinsically' activated and aggressive phenotype that results in the increased production of matrix-degrading enzymes and adhesion molecules, and is conserved over long-term passage in vitro. The three main mechanisms of epigenetic control -- DNA methylation, histone modifications and microRNA activity -- interact in the development of the RASF phenotype. The extent of global DNA methylation is reduced in synoviocytes in situ and RASFs in vitro. In addition, histone hyperacetylation occurs and specific microRNAs are expressed in RASFs. Normal synovial fibroblasts cultured in a hypomethylating milieu acquire an activated phenotype similar to that of RASFs. These findings suggest that epigenetic control, in particular the control of DNA methylation, is deficient in RASFs. Genome-wide analyses of the epigenome will enable the detection of additional genes involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis, the identification of epigenetic biomarkers, and potentially the development of a therapeutic regimen that targets activated RASFs.

Kawano, S. and Y. Nakamachi (2011). "miR-124a as a key regulator of proliferation and MCP-1 secretion in synoviocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis." Ann Rheum Dis 70 Suppl 1: i88-91. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a class of small endogenous non-coding RNAs that influence the stability and translation of messenger RNA. Synoviocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were analysed for their miRNA expression profile, and it was found that miR-124a levels significantly decreased in RA synoviocytes as compared with osteoarthritis synoviocytes. Transfection of miR-124a into RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed their proliferation and arrested the cell cycle at the G1 phase. miR-124a directly binds to the 3'-untranslated region of cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK-2) and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) mRNA, and the induction of miR-124a in RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed the production of the CDK-2 and MCP-1 proteins. It is proposed that miR-124a is a key miRNA in the post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of RA synoviocytes, and has a therapeutic potential.. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a class of small endogenous non-coding RNAs that influence the stability and translation of messenger RNA. Synoviocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were analysed for their miRNA expression profile, and it was found that miR-124a levels significantly decreased in RA synoviocytes as compared with osteoarthritis synoviocytes. Transfection of miR-124a into RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed their proliferation and arrested the cell cycle at the G1 phase. miR-124a directly binds to the 3'-untranslated region of cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK-2) and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) mRNA, and the induction of miR-124a in RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed the production of the CDK-2 and MCP-1 proteins. It is proposed that miR-124a is a key miRNA in the post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of RA synoviocytes, and has a therapeutic potential.

Khalifa, O., Y. M. Pers, et al. (2016). "X-Linked miRNAs Associated with Gender Differences in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Int J Mol Sci 17(11)Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that predominantly affects women. MicroRNAs have emerged as crucial regulators of the immune system, whose expression is deregulated in RA. We aimed at quantifying the expression level of 14 miRNAs located on the X chromosome and at identifying whether differences are associated with disease and/or sex. A case-control study of 21 RA patients and 22 age- and sex-matched healthy controls was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The expression level of five miRNAs (miR-221, miR-222, miR-532, miR-106a, and miR-98) was significantly different between RA and controls when stratifying by sex, and the expression level of four miRNAs (miR-222, miR-532, miR-98, and miR-92a) was significantly different between RA females and males. The expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis revealed a significant gender effect of the FoxP3 promoter polymorphism rs3761548A/C on miR-221, miR-222 and miR-532 expression levels, and of the FoxP3 polymorphism rs2232365A/G on miR-221 expression levels in PBMC of RA patients. These data further support the involvement of the X chromosome in RA susceptibility. X-linked miRNAs, in the context of sex differences, might provide novel insight into new molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets in RA for disease treatment and prevention.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that predominantly affects women. MicroRNAs have emerged as crucial regulators of the immune system, whose expression is deregulated in RA. We aimed at quantifying the expression level of 14 miRNAs located on the X chromosome and at identifying whether differences are associated with disease and/or sex. A case-control study of 21 RA patients and 22 age- and sex-matched healthy controls was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The expression level of five miRNAs (miR-221, miR-222, miR-532, miR-106a, and miR-98) was significantly different between RA and controls when stratifying by sex, and the expression level of four miRNAs (miR-222, miR-532, miR-98, and miR-92a) was significantly different between RA females and males. The expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis revealed a significant gender effect of the FoxP3 promoter polymorphism rs3761548A/C on miR-221, miR-222 and miR-532 expression levels, and of the FoxP3 polymorphism rs2232365A/G on miR-221 expression levels in PBMC of RA patients. These data further support the involvement of the X chromosome in RA susceptibility. X-linked miRNAs, in the context of sex differences, might provide novel insight into new molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets in RA for disease treatment and prevention.

Khan, D. and S. Ansar Ahmed (2015). "Regulation of IL-17 in autoimmune diseases by transcriptional factors and microRNAs." Front Genet 6: 236. In recent years, IL-17A (IL-17), a pro-inflammatory cytokine, has received intense attention of researchers and clinicians alike with documented effects in inflammation and autoimmune diseases. IL-17 mobilizes, recruits and activates different cells to increase inflammation. Although protective in infections, overproduction of IL-17 promotes inflammation in autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, among others. Regulating IL-17 levels or action by using IL-17-blocking antibodies or IL-17R antagonist has shown to attenuate experimental autoimmune diseases. It is now known that in addition to IL-17-specific transcription factor, RORgammat, several other transcription factors and select microRNAs (miRNA) regulate IL-17. Given that miRNAs are dysregulated in autoimmune diseases, a better understanding of transcriptional factors and miRNA regulation of IL-17 expression and function will be essential for devising potential new therapies. In this review, we will overview IL-17 induction and function in relation to autoimmune diseases. In addition, current findings on transcriptional regulation of IL-17 induction and plausible interplay between IL-17 and miRNA in autoimmune diseases are highlighted.. In recent years, IL-17A (IL-17), a pro-inflammatory cytokine, has received intense attention of researchers and clinicians alike with documented effects in inflammation and autoimmune diseases. IL-17 mobilizes, recruits and activates different cells to increase inflammation. Although protective in infections, overproduction of IL-17 promotes inflammation in autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, among others. Regulating IL-17 levels or action by using IL-17-blocking antibodies or IL-17R antagonist has shown to attenuate experimental autoimmune diseases. It is now known that in addition to IL-17-specific transcription factor, RORgammat, several other transcription factors and select microRNAs (miRNA) regulate IL-17. Given that miRNAs are dysregulated in autoimmune diseases, a better understanding of transcriptional factors and miRNA regulation of IL-17 expression and function will be essential for devising potential new therapies. In this review, we will overview IL-17 induction and function in relation to autoimmune diseases. In addition, current findings on transcriptional regulation of IL-17 induction and plausible interplay between IL-17 and miRNA in autoimmune diseases are highlighted.

Kim, R., S. I. Park, et al. (2017). "Alternative new mesenchymal stem cell source exerts tumor tropism through ALCAM and N-cadherin via regulation of microRNA-192 and -218." Mol Cell Biochem 427(1-2): 177-185. Gliomas are the most common type of malignant primary brain tumors. Some treatments of gliomas exist, but they are rarely curative. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are emerging as potential modes of targeted cancer therapy owing to their capacity for homing toward tumor sites. It has been proposed that MSCs derived from various sources, such as bone marrow, adipose tissue and umbilical cord blood, can be used as cell-based therapy for brain tumors. Here, MSCs obtained from the synovial fluid of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis patients were investigated as therapeutic candidates. Specifically, we compared migratory and adhesive abilities, as well as expression levels of related genes and microRNA in bone marrow derived-MSCs (BMMSCs), adipose derived-MSCs (ADMSCs), and synovial fluid derived-MSCs (SFMSCs) after treatment with conditioned medium from gliomas. Migration and adhesion of SFMSCs increased through upregulation of the activated lymphocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM) and N-cadherin by microRNA-192 and -218 downregulation, similar to BMMSCs and ADMSCs. Migratory capacities of all types of MSCs were evaluated in vivo, and SFMSCs migrated intensively toward gliomas. These results suggest that SFMSCs have potential for use in cell-based antitumor therapies.. Gliomas are the most common type of malignant primary brain tumors. Some treatments of gliomas exist, but they are rarely curative. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are emerging as potential modes of targeted cancer therapy owing to their capacity for homing toward tumor sites. It has been proposed that MSCs derived from various sources, such as bone marrow, adipose tissue and umbilical cord blood, can be used as cell-based therapy for brain tumors. Here, MSCs obtained from the synovial fluid of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis patients were investigated as therapeutic candidates. Specifically, we compared migratory and adhesive abilities, as well as expression levels of related genes and microRNA in bone marrow derived-MSCs (BMMSCs), adipose derived-MSCs (ADMSCs), and synovial fluid derived-MSCs (SFMSCs) after treatment with conditioned medium from gliomas. Migration and adhesion of SFMSCs increased through upregulation of the activated lymphocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM) and N-cadherin by microRNA-192 and -218 downregulation, similar to BMMSCs and ADMSCs. Migratory capacities of all types of MSCs were evaluated in vivo, and SFMSCs migrated intensively toward gliomas. These results suggest that SFMSCs have potential for use in cell-based antitumor therapies.

Kim, S. J. (2015). "Immunological function of Blimp-1 in dendritic cells and relevance to autoimmune diseases." Immunol Res 63(1-3): 113-120. Previous studies have identified the immunological functions of transcription factor B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (Blimp-1) in various adaptive immune cell types such as T and B lymphocytes. More recently, it has been shown that Blimp-1 extends its functional roles to dendritic cells (DCs) and macrophages, two cell types belonging to the innate immune system. The protein acts as a direct and indirect regulator of target genes by recruiting chromatin modification factors and by regulating microRNA expression, respectively. In DCs, Blimp-1 has been identified as one of the components involved in antigen presentation. Genome-wide association studies identified polymorphisms associated with multiple autoimmune diseases such as system lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and inflammatory bowel disease in PRDM1, the gene encoding Blimp-1 protein. In this review, we will discuss the immune regulatory functions of Blimp-1 in DCs with a main focus on the tolerogenic mechanisms of Blimp-1 required to protect against the development of autoimmune diseases.. Previous studies have identified the immunological functions of transcription factor B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (Blimp-1) in various adaptive immune cell types such as T and B lymphocytes. More recently, it has been shown that Blimp-1 extends its functional roles to dendritic cells (DCs) and macrophages, two cell types belonging to the innate immune system. The protein acts as a direct and indirect regulator of target genes by recruiting chromatin modification factors and by regulating microRNA expression, respectively. In DCs, Blimp-1 has been identified as one of the components involved in antigen presentation. Genome-wide association studies identified polymorphisms associated with multiple autoimmune diseases such as system lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and inflammatory bowel disease in PRDM1, the gene encoding Blimp-1 protein. In this review, we will discuss the immune regulatory functions of Blimp-1 in DCs with a main focus on the tolerogenic mechanisms of Blimp-1 required to protect against the development of autoimmune diseases.

Kim, S. J., Z. Chen, et al. (2016). "Identification of a Novel Toll-like Receptor 7 Endogenous Ligand in Rheumatoid Arthritis Synovial Fluid That Can Provoke Arthritic Joint Inflammation." Arthritis Rheumatol 68(5): 1099-1110. OBJECTIVE: Levels of Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR-7) are elevated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but the impact on RA is unknown because the endogenous ligand for TLR-7 has not been identified. The aim of this study was to identify a TLR-7 endogenous ligand and to determine its role in the pathogenesis of RA. METHODS: The presence of an endogenous TLR-7 ligand, microRNA let-7b (miR-let-7b), was examined by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. Using RA knockdown cells, TLR-7-knockout mice, or antagonist, the specificity of miR-let-7b as a potential ligand for TLR-7 was tested. The mechanism by which ligation of miR-let-7b to TLR-7 promotes disease was investigated in RA myeloid cells by real-time PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. We also established the effect of ectopic miR-let-7b expression on arthritic joint inflammation. RESULTS: We found that a TLR-7 endogenous ligand resides mainly in RA synovial fluid macrophages. The GU-rich domain in miR-let-7b was found to be essential for TLR-7 ligation, since miR-147, the positive control for GU, was able to stimulate TLR-7+ myeloid cells, whereas miR-124, the negative, non-GU, control, was not. We demonstrated that miR-let-7b or exosomes containing miR-let-7b could transform the RA and/or mouse naive or antiinflammatory macrophages into inflammatory M1 macrophages via TLR-7 ligation. Consistently, we showed that miR-let-7b provokes arthritis by remodeling naive myeloid cells into M1 macrophages via TLR-7 ligation, since joint swelling and M1 macrophages are absent in TLR-7-deficient mice. CONCLUSION: The results of this study underscore the importance of miR-let-7b ligation to TLR-7 in the joint during the effector phase of RA.. OBJECTIVE: Levels of Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR-7) are elevated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but the impact on RA is unknown because the endogenous ligand for TLR-7 has not been identified. The aim of this study was to identify a TLR-7 endogenous ligand and to determine its role in the pathogenesis of RA. METHODS: The presence of an endogenous TLR-7 ligand, microRNA let-7b (miR-let-7b), was examined by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. Using RA knockdown cells, TLR-7-knockout mice, or antagonist, the specificity of miR-let-7b as a potential ligand for TLR-7 was tested. The mechanism by which ligation of miR-let-7b to TLR-7 promotes disease was investigated in RA myeloid cells by real-time PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. We also established the effect of ectopic miR-let-7b expression on arthritic joint inflammation. RESULTS: We found that a TLR-7 endogenous ligand resides mainly in RA synovial fluid macrophages. The GU-rich domain in miR-let-7b was found to be essential for TLR-7 ligation, since miR-147, the positive control for GU, was able to stimulate TLR-7+ myeloid cells, whereas miR-124, the negative, non-GU, control, was not. We demonstrated that miR-let-7b or exosomes containing miR-let-7b could transform the RA and/or mouse naive or antiinflammatory macrophages into inflammatory M1 macrophages via TLR-7 ligation. Consistently, we showed that miR-let-7b provokes arthritis by remodeling naive myeloid cells into M1 macrophages via TLR-7 ligation, since joint swelling and M1 macrophages are absent in TLR-7-deficient mice. CONCLUSION: The results of this study underscore the importance of miR-let-7b ligation to TLR-7 in the joint during the effector phase of RA.

Kolarz, B. and M. Majdan (2017). "Epigenetic aspects of rheumatoid arthritis: contribution of non-coding RNAs." Semin Arthritis Rheum 46(6): 724-731. Since microRNA was discovered in the late 1990s the role of non-coding RNAs in the regulation of cellular processes has been confirmed. Intensive researches have revealed a number of subtypes of non-coding RNA. It has been proved that these molecules can influence each step of the development of cells and tissues. Moreover, researchers have found their expression change during disease development. In this article, we gathered the current results on the contribution of microRNA and long non-coding RNA in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis and their potential use in rheumatoid arthritis treatment. Although the present stage of studies on this matter is still very early, many studies have confirmed non-coding RNAs' involvement in rheumatoid arthritis development. We showed ncRNAs changes in various tissues or cell lines of RA in humans or in animal models of RA. We tried to present possible mechanisms causing respective modifications of ncRNAs expression. There are some propositions to use some of them as markers of rheumatoid arthritis. Moreover, very advanced techniques of drug preparation are proposed to influence the microRNA or lncRNA pathways to inhibit inflammation in RA patients. None of them are now at the trial stage, but some are very promising.. Since microRNA was discovered in the late 1990s the role of non-coding RNAs in the regulation of cellular processes has been confirmed. Intensive researches have revealed a number of subtypes of non-coding RNA. It has been proved that these molecules can influence each step of the development of cells and tissues. Moreover, researchers have found their expression change during disease development. In this article, we gathered the current results on the contribution of microRNA and long non-coding RNA in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis and their potential use in rheumatoid arthritis treatment. Although the present stage of studies on this matter is still very early, many studies have confirmed non-coding RNAs' involvement in rheumatoid arthritis development. We showed ncRNAs changes in various tissues or cell lines of RA in humans or in animal models of RA. We tried to present possible mechanisms causing respective modifications of ncRNAs expression. There are some propositions to use some of them as markers of rheumatoid arthritis. Moreover, very advanced techniques of drug preparation are proposed to influence the microRNA or lncRNA pathways to inhibit inflammation in RA patients. None of them are now at the trial stage, but some are very promising.

Kriegsmann, J., N. Arens, et al. (2014). "[Molecular pathological diagnostics of infections in orthopedic pathology]." Pathologe 35 Suppl 2: 225-231. The diagnosis of infections in patients with arthritis and/or in joint prostheses requires interdisciplinary cooperation and the application of up-to-date methods. The histological investigation of the synovial membrane allows the differentiation of acute, chronic and granulomatous synovialitis. Detection of conserved regions of the microbial genome by PCR, especially 16S rRNA for bacteria and 18S rRNA for fungi, is a broad approach for the classification of pathogens which cannot be cultured. Acute infectious arthritis and periprosthetic infections share the spectrum of pathogens with sepsis, therefore multiplex PCR-based methods for the detection of sepsis can be employed. Molecular diagnostics can detect minimal infections in periprosthetic tissues even after antibiotic therapy. The anamnesis (enteral or urogenital infection), clinical picture (oligoarthritis) and further parameters (e.g. HLA B27 status) are important for the diagnosis of reactive arthritis. In many cases of reactive arthritis, molecular methods allow the detection of bacterial DNA or RNA in synovial fluid or tissue samples. The low sensitivity of histopathological methods may be compensated by application of PCR techniques, especially in the differential diagnosis of granulomatous synovitis including mycobacterial infections. Molecular methods can be used to support the differential diagnosis of septic and reactive arthritis. MicroRNA techniques combined with PCR for detection of pathogens support the differential diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis with severe inflammatory activity compared to infectious arthritis. Proteomic methods could expand the methodological spectrum for the diagnosis of infections.. The diagnosis of infections in patients with arthritis and/or in joint prostheses requires interdisciplinary cooperation and the application of up-to-date methods. The histological investigation of the synovial membrane allows the differentiation of acute, chronic and granulomatous synovialitis. Detection of conserved regions of the microbial genome by PCR, especially 16S rRNA for bacteria and 18S rRNA for fungi, is a broad approach for the classification of pathogens which cannot be cultured. Acute infectious arthritis and periprosthetic infections share the spectrum of pathogens with sepsis, therefore multiplex PCR-based methods for the detection of sepsis can be employed. Molecular diagnostics can detect minimal infections in periprosthetic tissues even after antibiotic therapy. The anamnesis (enteral or urogenital infection), clinical picture (oligoarthritis) and further parameters (e.g. HLA B27 status) are important for the diagnosis of reactive arthritis. In many cases of reactive arthritis, molecular methods allow the detection of bacterial DNA or RNA in synovial fluid or tissue samples. The low sensitivity of histopathological methods may be compensated by application of PCR techniques, especially in the differential diagnosis of granulomatous synovitis including mycobacterial infections. Molecular methods can be used to support the differential diagnosis of septic and reactive arthritis. MicroRNA techniques combined with PCR for detection of pathogens support the differential diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis with severe inflammatory activity compared to infectious arthritis. Proteomic methods could expand the methodological spectrum for the diagnosis of infections.

Kriegsmann, M., T. M. Randau, et al. (2016). "Expression of miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded synovial tissues of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis." Virchows Arch 469(1): 93-100. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease with a heterogeneous clinical presentation affecting about 1 % of adults in developed countries. Currently, the diagnosis is based on the revised criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) from 2010. These criteria include clinical and laboratory parameters. Because of the variability of the clinical picture, delayed diagnosis of RA occurs in a significant subset of patients. Therefore, the discovery of novel biomarkers that improve the diagnosis of RA is of particular interest. Recently, it became evident that miRNAs have regulatory activities in physiologic processes and human diseases. Upregulation of miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 has been shown in various compartments such as serum, blood, synovial fluid, and tissues in patients with RA. A total of 87 samples were analyzed (RA 50, osteoarthritis (OA) 37). RNA was isolated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded synovial tissue (FFPE). The relative expression of miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 was determined by comparison to a housekeeping RNA molecule (snRNA U6) and an RNA pool from histologically and clinically verified OA samples. miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 were significantly elevated in RA compared to OA synovial tissues (p < 0.001). A strong correlation between the miRNAs could be observed. The sensitivity and specificity for the detection of RA were 0.76/0.80 (miR-146a), 0.80/0.95 (miR-155), and 0.86/0.81 (miR-223). The combination of miR-155 and miR-223 resulted in the highest area under the curve (AUC 0.92) with a sensitivity and specificity of 0.84/0.91, respectively. Significantly higher expression levels of miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 in FFPE synovial tissue samples of patients with established RA compared to patients with OA were shown. The usefulness of these miRs for the differential diagnosis of early phases of RA against OA remains to be investigated.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease with a heterogeneous clinical presentation affecting about 1 % of adults in developed countries. Currently, the diagnosis is based on the revised criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) from 2010. These criteria include clinical and laboratory parameters. Because of the variability of the clinical picture, delayed diagnosis of RA occurs in a significant subset of patients. Therefore, the discovery of novel biomarkers that improve the diagnosis of RA is of particular interest. Recently, it became evident that miRNAs have regulatory activities in physiologic processes and human diseases. Upregulation of miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 has been shown in various compartments such as serum, blood, synovial fluid, and tissues in patients with RA. A total of 87 samples were analyzed (RA 50, osteoarthritis (OA) 37). RNA was isolated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded synovial tissue (FFPE). The relative expression of miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 was determined by comparison to a housekeeping RNA molecule (snRNA U6) and an RNA pool from histologically and clinically verified OA samples. miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 were significantly elevated in RA compared to OA synovial tissues (p < 0.001). A strong correlation between the miRNAs could be observed. The sensitivity and specificity for the detection of RA were 0.76/0.80 (miR-146a), 0.80/0.95 (miR-155), and 0.86/0.81 (miR-223). The combination of miR-155 and miR-223 resulted in the highest area under the curve (AUC 0.92) with a sensitivity and specificity of 0.84/0.91, respectively. Significantly higher expression levels of miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 in FFPE synovial tissue samples of patients with established RA compared to patients with OA were shown. The usefulness of these miRs for the differential diagnosis of early phases of RA against OA remains to be investigated.

Krintel, S. B., C. Dehlendorff, et al. (2016). "Prediction of treatment response to adalimumab: a double-blind placebo-controlled study of circulating microRNA in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis." Pharmacogenomics J 16(2): 141-146. At least 30% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) do not respond to biologic agents, which emphasizes the need of predictive biomarkers. We aimed to identify microRNAs (miRNAs) predictive of response to adalimumab in 180 treatment-naive RA patients enrolled in the OPtimized treatment algorithm for patients with early RA (OPERA) Study, an investigator-initiated, prospective, double-blind placebo-controlled study. Patients were randomized to adalimumab 40 mg (n=89) or placebo-adalimumab (n=91) subcutaneously in combination with methotrexate. Expressions of 377 miRNAs were determined using TaqMan Human MicroRNA LDA, A Card v2.0 (Applied Biosystems). Associations between miRNAs and treatment response were tested using interaction analyses. MiRNAs with a P-value <0.05 using three different normalizations were included in a multivariate model. After backwards elimination, the combination of low expression of miR-22 and high expression of miR-886.3p was associated with EULAR good response. Future studies to assess the utility of these miRNAs as predictive biomarkers are needed.. At least 30% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) do not respond to biologic agents, which emphasizes the need of predictive biomarkers. We aimed to identify microRNAs (miRNAs) predictive of response to adalimumab in 180 treatment-naive RA patients enrolled in the OPtimized treatment algorithm for patients with early RA (OPERA) Study, an investigator-initiated, prospective, double-blind placebo-controlled study. Patients were randomized to adalimumab 40 mg (n=89) or placebo-adalimumab (n=91) subcutaneously in combination with methotrexate. Expressions of 377 miRNAs were determined using TaqMan Human MicroRNA LDA, A Card v2.0 (Applied Biosystems). Associations between miRNAs and treatment response were tested using interaction analyses. MiRNAs with a P-value <0.05 using three different normalizations were included in a multivariate model. After backwards elimination, the combination of low expression of miR-22 and high expression of miR-886.3p was associated with EULAR good response. Future studies to assess the utility of these miRNAs as predictive biomarkers are needed.

Krissansen, G. W., Y. Yang, et al. (2015). "Overexpression of miR-595 and miR-1246 in the sera of patients with active forms of inflammatory bowel disease." Inflamm Bowel Dis 21(3): 520-530. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are dysregulated in the inflammatory bowel diseases, Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), which arise due to dysfunctional host-microbe interactions and impairment of the barrier function of the intestine. Here, we sought to determine whether circulating miRNAs are biomarkers of active colonic CD and UC and can provide insights into disease pathogenesis. Comparison was made with serum miRNAs in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: Total serum RNA from patients with colonic CD, UC, and RA, and normal healthy adults was screened for disease-associated miRNAs by microarray analysis, with subsequent validation by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. MiRNA targets were identified by luciferase reporter assays. RESULTS: MiR-595 and miR-1246 were significantly upregulated in the sera of active colonic CD, UC, and RA patients, compared with healthy subjects; and in active colonic CD and UC compared with inactive disease. Luciferase reporter assays indicated that miR-595 inhibits the expression of neural cell adhesion molecule-1 and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. CONCLUSIONS: Serum miR-595 and miR-1246 are biomarkers of active CD, UC, and RA. These findings gain significance from reports that miR-595 impairs epithelial tight junctions, whereas miR-1246 indirectly activates the proinflammatory nuclear factor of activated T cells. miR-595 targets the cell adhesion molecule neural cell adhesion molecule-1, and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2, which plays a key role in the differentiation, protection, and repair of colonic epithelium, and maintenance of tight junctions. miR-595 and miR-1246 warrant testing as potential targets for therapeutic intervention in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are dysregulated in the inflammatory bowel diseases, Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), which arise due to dysfunctional host-microbe interactions and impairment of the barrier function of the intestine. Here, we sought to determine whether circulating miRNAs are biomarkers of active colonic CD and UC and can provide insights into disease pathogenesis. Comparison was made with serum miRNAs in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: Total serum RNA from patients with colonic CD, UC, and RA, and normal healthy adults was screened for disease-associated miRNAs by microarray analysis, with subsequent validation by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. MiRNA targets were identified by luciferase reporter assays. RESULTS: MiR-595 and miR-1246 were significantly upregulated in the sera of active colonic CD, UC, and RA patients, compared with healthy subjects; and in active colonic CD and UC compared with inactive disease. Luciferase reporter assays indicated that miR-595 inhibits the expression of neural cell adhesion molecule-1 and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. CONCLUSIONS: Serum miR-595 and miR-1246 are biomarkers of active CD, UC, and RA. These findings gain significance from reports that miR-595 impairs epithelial tight junctions, whereas miR-1246 indirectly activates the proinflammatory nuclear factor of activated T cells. miR-595 targets the cell adhesion molecule neural cell adhesion molecule-1, and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2, which plays a key role in the differentiation, protection, and repair of colonic epithelium, and maintenance of tight junctions. miR-595 and miR-1246 warrant testing as potential targets for therapeutic intervention in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.

Kung, L. H., S. Zaki, et al. (2017). "Utility of circulating serum miRNAs as biomarkers of early cartilage degeneration in animal models of post-traumatic osteoarthritis and inflammatory arthritis." Osteoarthritis Cartilage 25(3): 426-434. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine if serum microRNA (miRNA) signatures were biomarkers of early cartilage degeneration in preclinical mouse models of post-traumatic osteoarthritis (OA) and inflammatory arthritis. METHODS: Cartilage degeneration was induced in 10-12 week old male C57BL6 mice by destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) or intra-articular injection of methylated-bovine-serum-albumin (AIA), with sham-operated or saline-injected control animals (n = 6/treatment/time). Total serum RNA and knee joints were isolated at 1, 4 and 16 weeks post-induction. Cartilage degeneration was scored histologically. Serum miRNA expression profiling was performed using Agilent microarrays and validated by qPCR. RESULTS: DMM-operated and AIA mice had characteristic cartilage degeneration (proteoglycan loss, chondrocyte hypertrophy, structural damage), that increased significantly with time compared with controls, and with distinct temporal differences between arthritis models. However, expression profiling revealed no statistically significant dysregulation of serum miRNAs between AIA vs saline-injected or DMM vs sham-operated control mice at the critical early disease stages. The inability to detect DMM or AIA serum miRNA signatures compared with controls was not due to the insensitivity of the expression profiling approach since significant changes were observed in miRNA expression between the arthritis models and between time points. CONCLUSION: While distinct patterns of progressive cartilage degradation were induced in the arthritis models, we were unable to identify any serum miRNAs that were significantly dysregulated in early stages of disease compared with controls. This suggests circulating serum miRNAs may not be useful as cartilage biomarkers in distinguishing the early or progressive stages of arthritis cartilage degeneration.. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine if serum microRNA (miRNA) signatures were biomarkers of early cartilage degeneration in preclinical mouse models of post-traumatic osteoarthritis (OA) and inflammatory arthritis. METHODS: Cartilage degeneration was induced in 10-12 week old male C57BL6 mice by destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) or intra-articular injection of methylated-bovine-serum-albumin (AIA), with sham-operated or saline-injected control animals (n = 6/treatment/time). Total serum RNA and knee joints were isolated at 1, 4 and 16 weeks post-induction. Cartilage degeneration was scored histologically. Serum miRNA expression profiling was performed using Agilent microarrays and validated by qPCR. RESULTS: DMM-operated and AIA mice had characteristic cartilage degeneration (proteoglycan loss, chondrocyte hypertrophy, structural damage), that increased significantly with time compared with controls, and with distinct temporal differences between arthritis models. However, expression profiling revealed no statistically significant dysregulation of serum miRNAs between AIA vs saline-injected or DMM vs sham-operated control mice at the critical early disease stages. The inability to detect DMM or AIA serum miRNA signatures compared with controls was not due to the insensitivity of the expression profiling approach since significant changes were observed in miRNA expression between the arthritis models and between time points. CONCLUSION: While distinct patterns of progressive cartilage degradation were induced in the arthritis models, we were unable to identify any serum miRNAs that were significantly dysregulated in early stages of disease compared with controls. This suggests circulating serum miRNAs may not be useful as cartilage biomarkers in distinguishing the early or progressive stages of arthritis cartilage degeneration.

Kurowska, W., E. Kuca-Warnawin, et al. (2018). "Monocyte-related biomarkers of rheumatoid arthritis development in undifferentiated arthritis patients - a pilot study." Reumatologia 56(1): 10-16. Objectives: Enhanced/disturbed activities of monocytes are crucial for perpetuation and for development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Therefore, knowledge about monocyte activities and regulation of molecular pathways operating within monocytes early in the course of RA development may help to predict the progression to the full-blown disease. We aimed to investigate the profile of miRNAs expression in circulating monocytes and monocyte-related cytokines in sera of individuals at undifferentiated arthritis (UA) stage, wich could serve as new biomarkers for RA development. Material and methods: Magnetically sorted monocytes from peripheral blood of 20 UA patients served for total RNA isolation. RNA samples were used for microRNA profiling. Concentrations of CCL3/MIP-1alpha, M-CSF, CCL2/MCP-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-15 in sera of UA patients were measured using ELISA assays. Verification of diagnosis after 4 years of follow-up led to the identification of patients who developed RA (UA-->RA patients) and patients who remained still in UA phase (UA --> UA patients). Comparisons between patients groups were performed using two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test. Results: We identified 50 miRNAs in monocytes with the largest variation of expression across all patients samples. From these selected miRNAs, expression of miR-642b-5p, miR-483-3p, miR-371b-5p were significantly up-regulated and miR-25-3p and miR-378d were significantly down-regulated in UA --> RA vs. UA --> UA patients. This specific pattern of miRNAs expression in circulating monocytes paralleled elevated IL-15 and M-CSF concentrations in sera of UA patients who progressed to RA. Conclusions: Results of our pilot study indicate that altered activity of monocytes can be detected at early stages of RA. We found new miRNA candidates differentially expressed in peripheral blood monocytes and elevated concentrations of IL-15 and M-CSF involved in monocyte activity and differentiation in patients with UA who subsequently developed RA, in comparison to UA patients who did not progress to RA after 4 years follow-up.. Objectives: Enhanced/disturbed activities of monocytes are crucial for perpetuation and for development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Therefore, knowledge about monocyte activities and regulation of molecular pathways operating within monocytes early in the course of RA development may help to predict the progression to the full-blown disease. We aimed to investigate the profile of miRNAs expression in circulating monocytes and monocyte-related cytokines in sera of individuals at undifferentiated arthritis (UA) stage, wich could serve as new biomarkers for RA development. Material and methods: Magnetically sorted monocytes from peripheral blood of 20 UA patients served for total RNA isolation. RNA samples were used for microRNA profiling. Concentrations of CCL3/MIP-1alpha, M-CSF, CCL2/MCP-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-15 in sera of UA patients were measured using ELISA assays. Verification of diagnosis after 4 years of follow-up led to the identification of patients who developed RA (UA-->RA patients) and patients who remained still in UA phase (UA --> UA patients). Comparisons between patients groups were performed using two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test. Results: We identified 50 miRNAs in monocytes with the largest variation of expression across all patients samples. From these selected miRNAs, expression of miR-642b-5p, miR-483-3p, miR-371b-5p were significantly up-regulated and miR-25-3p and miR-378d were significantly down-regulated in UA --> RA vs. UA --> UA patients. This specific pattern of miRNAs expression in circulating monocytes paralleled elevated IL-15 and M-CSF concentrations in sera of UA patients who progressed to RA. Conclusions: Results of our pilot study indicate that altered activity of monocytes can be detected at early stages of RA. We found new miRNA candidates differentially expressed in peripheral blood monocytes and elevated concentrations of IL-15 and M-CSF involved in monocyte activity and differentiation in patients with UA who subsequently developed RA, in comparison to UA patients who did not progress to RA after 4 years follow-up.

Kurowska-Stolarska, M., S. Alivernini, et al. (2011). "MicroRNA-155 as a proinflammatory regulator in clinical and experimental arthritis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 108(27): 11193-11198. MicroRNA (miRNA) species (miR) regulate mRNA translation and are implicated as mediators of disease pathology via coordinated regulation of molecular effector pathways. Unraveling miR disease-related activities will facilitate future therapeutic interventions. miR-155 recently has been identified with critical immune regulatory functions. Although detected in articular tissues, the functional role of miR-155 in inflammatory arthritis has not been defined. We report here that miR-155 is up-regulated in synovial membrane and synovial fluid (SF) macrophages from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The increased expression of miR-155 in SF CD14(+) cells was associated with lower expression of the miR-155 target, Src homology 2-containing inositol phosphatase-1 (SHIP-1), an inhibitor of inflammation. Similarly, SHIP-1 expression was decreased in CD68(+) cells in the synovial lining layer in RA patients as compared with osteoarthritis patients. Overexpression of miR-155 in PB CD14(+) cells led to down-regulation of SHIP-1 and an increase in the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Conversely, inhibition of miR-155 in RA synovial CD14(+) cells reduced TNF-alpha production. Finally, miR-155-deficient mice are resistant to collagen-induced arthritis, with profound suppression of antigen-specific Th17 cell and autoantibody responses and markedly reduced articular inflammation. Our data therefore identify a role of miR-155 in clinical and experimental arthritis and suggest that miR-155 may be an intriguing therapeutic target.. MicroRNA (miRNA) species (miR) regulate mRNA translation and are implicated as mediators of disease pathology via coordinated regulation of molecular effector pathways. Unraveling miR disease-related activities will facilitate future therapeutic interventions. miR-155 recently has been identified with critical immune regulatory functions. Although detected in articular tissues, the functional role of miR-155 in inflammatory arthritis has not been defined. We report here that miR-155 is up-regulated in synovial membrane and synovial fluid (SF) macrophages from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The increased expression of miR-155 in SF CD14(+) cells was associated with lower expression of the miR-155 target, Src homology 2-containing inositol phosphatase-1 (SHIP-1), an inhibitor of inflammation. Similarly, SHIP-1 expression was decreased in CD68(+) cells in the synovial lining layer in RA patients as compared with osteoarthritis patients. Overexpression of miR-155 in PB CD14(+) cells led to down-regulation of SHIP-1 and an increase in the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Conversely, inhibition of miR-155 in RA synovial CD14(+) cells reduced TNF-alpha production. Finally, miR-155-deficient mice are resistant to collagen-induced arthritis, with profound suppression of antigen-specific Th17 cell and autoantibody responses and markedly reduced articular inflammation. Our data therefore identify a role of miR-155 in clinical and experimental arthritis and suggest that miR-155 may be an intriguing therapeutic target.

Kurowska-Stolarska, M., S. Alivernini, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA-34a dependent regulation of AXL controls the activation of dendritic cells in inflammatory arthritis." Nat Commun 8: 15877. Current treatments for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) do not reverse underlying aberrant immune function. A genetic predisposition to RA, such as HLA-DR4 positivity, indicates that dendritic cells (DC) are of crucial importance to pathogenesis by activating auto-reactive lymphocytes. Here we show that microRNA-34a provides homoeostatic control of CD1c(+) DC activation via regulation of tyrosine kinase receptor AXL, an important inhibitory DC auto-regulator. This pathway is aberrant in CD1c(+) DCs from patients with RA, with upregulation of miR-34a and lower levels of AXL compared to DC from healthy donors. Production of pro-inflammatory cytokines is reduced by ex vivo gene-silencing of miR-34a. miR-34a-deficient mice are resistant to collagen-induced arthritis and interaction of DCs and T cells from these mice are reduced and do not support the development of Th17 cells in vivo. Our findings therefore show that miR-34a is an epigenetic regulator of DC function that may contribute to RA.. Current treatments for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) do not reverse underlying aberrant immune function. A genetic predisposition to RA, such as HLA-DR4 positivity, indicates that dendritic cells (DC) are of crucial importance to pathogenesis by activating auto-reactive lymphocytes. Here we show that microRNA-34a provides homoeostatic control of CD1c(+) DC activation via regulation of tyrosine kinase receptor AXL, an important inhibitory DC auto-regulator. This pathway is aberrant in CD1c(+) DCs from patients with RA, with upregulation of miR-34a and lower levels of AXL compared to DC from healthy donors. Production of pro-inflammatory cytokines is reduced by ex vivo gene-silencing of miR-34a. miR-34a-deficient mice are resistant to collagen-induced arthritis and interaction of DCs and T cells from these mice are reduced and do not support the development of Th17 cells in vivo. Our findings therefore show that miR-34a is an epigenetic regulator of DC function that may contribute to RA.

Kyburz, D., E. Karouzakis, et al. (2014). "Epigenetic changes: the missing link." Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol 28(4): 577-587. The association of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with a number of genetic risk loci is well established; however, only part of the risk to develop the disease is based on genetics. Environmental factors significantly contribute to the pathogenesis. A gene-environment interaction for smoking and certain major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II alleles has been shown to promote anti-citrullinated protein antibody (ACPA)-positive RA; however, the molecular mechanisms of interaction remain unclear. In contrast to the genetic background, epigenetic factors are responsive to external stimuli and can modulate gene expression. Therefore, epigenetic mechanisms may function as intermediaries between genetic risk alleles and environmental factors. In this review, epigenetic mechanisms are explained and the evidence for epigenetic changes relevant for the pathogenesis of RA and potential therapeutic applications are discussed.. The association of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with a number of genetic risk loci is well established; however, only part of the risk to develop the disease is based on genetics. Environmental factors significantly contribute to the pathogenesis. A gene-environment interaction for smoking and certain major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II alleles has been shown to promote anti-citrullinated protein antibody (ACPA)-positive RA; however, the molecular mechanisms of interaction remain unclear. In contrast to the genetic background, epigenetic factors are responsive to external stimuli and can modulate gene expression. Therefore, epigenetic mechanisms may function as intermediaries between genetic risk alleles and environmental factors. In this review, epigenetic mechanisms are explained and the evidence for epigenetic changes relevant for the pathogenesis of RA and potential therapeutic applications are discussed.

Lai, N. S., H. C. Yu, et al. (2013). "Aberrant expression of microRNAs in T cells from patients with ankylosing spondylitis contributes to the immunopathogenesis." Clin Exp Immunol 173(1): 47-57. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by dysregulated T cells. We hypothesized that the aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in AS T cells involved in the pathogenesis of AS. The expression profile of 270 miRNAs in T cells from five AS patients and five healthy controls were analysed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Thirteen miRNAs were found potentially differential expression. After validation, we confirmed that miR-16, miR-221 and let-7i were over-expressed in AS T cells and the expression of miR-221 and let-7i were correlated positively with the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Radiology Index (BASRI) of lumbar spine in AS patients. The protein molecules regulated by miR-16, miR-221 and let-7i were measured by Western blotting. We found that the protein levels of Toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4), a target of let-7i, in T cells from AS patients were decreased. In addition, the mRNA expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma was elevated in AS T cells. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a TLR-4 agonist, inhibited IFN-gamma secretion by anti-CD3(+) anti-CD28 antibodies-stimulated normal T cells but not AS T cells. In the transfection studies, we found the increased expression of let-7i enhanced IFN-gamma production by anti-CD3(+) anti-CD28(+) lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated normal T cells. In contrast, the decreased expression of let-7i suppressed IFN-gamma production by anti-CD3(+) anti-CD28(+) LPS-stimulated AS T cells. In conclusion, we found that miR-16, miR-221 and let-7i were over-expressed in AS T cells, but only miR-221 and let-7i were associated with BASRI of lumbar spine. In the functional studies, the increased let-7i expression facilitated the T helper type 1 (IFN-gamma) immune response in T cells.. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by dysregulated T cells. We hypothesized that the aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in AS T cells involved in the pathogenesis of AS. The expression profile of 270 miRNAs in T cells from five AS patients and five healthy controls were analysed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Thirteen miRNAs were found potentially differential expression. After validation, we confirmed that miR-16, miR-221 and let-7i were over-expressed in AS T cells and the expression of miR-221 and let-7i were correlated positively with the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Radiology Index (BASRI) of lumbar spine in AS patients. The protein molecules regulated by miR-16, miR-221 and let-7i were measured by Western blotting. We found that the protein levels of Toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4), a target of let-7i, in T cells from AS patients were decreased. In addition, the mRNA expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma was elevated in AS T cells. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a TLR-4 agonist, inhibited IFN-gamma secretion by anti-CD3(+) anti-CD28 antibodies-stimulated normal T cells but not AS T cells. In the transfection studies, we found the increased expression of let-7i enhanced IFN-gamma production by anti-CD3(+) anti-CD28(+) lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated normal T cells. In contrast, the decreased expression of let-7i suppressed IFN-gamma production by anti-CD3(+) anti-CD28(+) LPS-stimulated AS T cells. In conclusion, we found that miR-16, miR-221 and let-7i were over-expressed in AS T cells, but only miR-221 and let-7i were associated with BASRI of lumbar spine. In the functional studies, the increased let-7i expression facilitated the T helper type 1 (IFN-gamma) immune response in T cells.

Lai, N. S., H. C. Yu, et al. (2015). "Anti-citrullinated protein antibodies suppress let-7a expression in monocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis and facilitate the inflammatory responses in rheumatoid arthritis." Immunobiology 220(12): 1351-1358. We hypothesized that anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) could affect the expression of miRNAs in monocytes and contribute to the inflammatory responses in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The expression profiles of 270 human miRNAs, co-cultured with ACPAs or human immunoglobulin G (IgG), were analyzed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Ten miRNAs exhibited differential expression in U937 cells after co-cultured with ACPAs compared with human IgG. The expression levels of these miRNAs were investigated in monocytes from 21 ACPA-positive RA patients and 13 controls. Among these miRNAs, the expression levels of let-7a was decreased in monocytes from ACPA-positive RA patients. The expression levels of let-7a showed a negative correlation with positivity of rheumatoid factor in patients sampled. We found that transfection of U937 cells with let-7a mimic suppressed K-Ras protein expression. In the ACPA-mediated signaling pathway, transfection of U937 cells with let-7a mimic suppressed the ACPA-enhanced phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), and the expression and secretion of interleukin (IL)-1beta. In conclusion, ACPA-mediated decreased let-7a expression in monocytes from ACPA-positive RA patients. Decreased let-7a expression was associated with the positivity of RF in ACPA-positive RA patients. The decreased expression of let-7a could facilitate the inflammatory pathway via enhanced ACPA-mediated phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and JNK and increased expression of IL-1beta through an increase in the expression of Ras proteins.. We hypothesized that anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) could affect the expression of miRNAs in monocytes and contribute to the inflammatory responses in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The expression profiles of 270 human miRNAs, co-cultured with ACPAs or human immunoglobulin G (IgG), were analyzed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Ten miRNAs exhibited differential expression in U937 cells after co-cultured with ACPAs compared with human IgG. The expression levels of these miRNAs were investigated in monocytes from 21 ACPA-positive RA patients and 13 controls. Among these miRNAs, the expression levels of let-7a was decreased in monocytes from ACPA-positive RA patients. The expression levels of let-7a showed a negative correlation with positivity of rheumatoid factor in patients sampled. We found that transfection of U937 cells with let-7a mimic suppressed K-Ras protein expression. In the ACPA-mediated signaling pathway, transfection of U937 cells with let-7a mimic suppressed the ACPA-enhanced phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), and the expression and secretion of interleukin (IL)-1beta. In conclusion, ACPA-mediated decreased let-7a expression in monocytes from ACPA-positive RA patients. Decreased let-7a expression was associated with the positivity of RF in ACPA-positive RA patients. The decreased expression of let-7a could facilitate the inflammatory pathway via enhanced ACPA-mediated phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and JNK and increased expression of IL-1beta through an increase in the expression of Ras proteins.

Lam, I. K. Y., J. X. Chow, et al. (2018). "MicroRNA-mediated immune regulation in rheumatic diseases." Cancer Lett 431: 201-212. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small, non-coding RNAs that regulate genome expression at the post-transcriptional level. They are involved in a wide range of physiological processes including the maintenance of immune homeostasis and normal function. Accumulating evidence from animal studies show that alterations in pan or specific miRNA expression would break immunological tolerance, leading to autoimmunity. Differential miRNA expressions have also been documented in patients of many autoimmune disorders. In this review, we highlight the evidence that signifies the critical role of miRNAs in autoimmunity, specifically on their regulatory roles in the pathogenesis of several rheumatic diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis and spondyloarthritis. The potential of miRNAs as biomarkers and therapeutic targets is also discussed. Manipulation of dysregulated miRNAs in vivo through miRNA delivery or inhibition offers promise for new therapeutic strategies in treating rheumatic diseases.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small, non-coding RNAs that regulate genome expression at the post-transcriptional level. They are involved in a wide range of physiological processes including the maintenance of immune homeostasis and normal function. Accumulating evidence from animal studies show that alterations in pan or specific miRNA expression would break immunological tolerance, leading to autoimmunity. Differential miRNA expressions have also been documented in patients of many autoimmune disorders. In this review, we highlight the evidence that signifies the critical role of miRNAs in autoimmunity, specifically on their regulatory roles in the pathogenesis of several rheumatic diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis and spondyloarthritis. The potential of miRNAs as biomarkers and therapeutic targets is also discussed. Manipulation of dysregulated miRNAs in vivo through miRNA delivery or inhibition offers promise for new therapeutic strategies in treating rheumatic diseases.

Lashine, Y. A., S. Salah, et al. (2015). "Correcting the expression of miRNA-155 represses PP2Ac and enhances the release of IL-2 in PBMCs of juvenile SLE patients." Lupus 24(3): 240-247. MicroRNA-155 is involved in immune cell, differentiation, maturation and function. MiR-155 showed variable dysregulated expression in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. MiR-155 was previously confirmed to directly target CAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which was previously identified as a positive regulator of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). PP2A is a key negative regulator of interleukin-2, which is an important immune modulator and was previously shown to be decreased in SLE. In this study we aimed at investigating the regulation of PP2A by miR-155 and hence its role in juvenile SLE disease pathogenesis. MiR-155 showed significant downregulation in PBMCs from juvenile SLE and juvenile familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) and significant upregulation in PBMCs from juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) patients. In SLE, miR-155 expression was negatively correlated with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) score and proteinuria and was positively correlated with white blood cell (WBC) count. The mRNA of the catalytic subunit of PP2A (PP2Ac) showed significant upregulation in PBMCs from SLE and FMF but not in JIA patients. Additionally, the relative expression of PP2Ac mRNA was positively correlated with SLEDAI score. Forced expression of miR-155 led to decreased relative expression of PP2Ac mRNA and increased IL-2 release in cultured-stimulated PBMCs. This study suggests for the first time the possible role of an miR-155-PP2Ac loop in regulating IL-2 release and identifies miR-155 as a potential therapeutic target in juvenile SLE disease through relieving IL-2 from the inhibitory role of PP2A.. MicroRNA-155 is involved in immune cell, differentiation, maturation and function. MiR-155 showed variable dysregulated expression in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. MiR-155 was previously confirmed to directly target CAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which was previously identified as a positive regulator of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). PP2A is a key negative regulator of interleukin-2, which is an important immune modulator and was previously shown to be decreased in SLE. In this study we aimed at investigating the regulation of PP2A by miR-155 and hence its role in juvenile SLE disease pathogenesis. MiR-155 showed significant downregulation in PBMCs from juvenile SLE and juvenile familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) and significant upregulation in PBMCs from juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) patients. In SLE, miR-155 expression was negatively correlated with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) score and proteinuria and was positively correlated with white blood cell (WBC) count. The mRNA of the catalytic subunit of PP2A (PP2Ac) showed significant upregulation in PBMCs from SLE and FMF but not in JIA patients. Additionally, the relative expression of PP2Ac mRNA was positively correlated with SLEDAI score. Forced expression of miR-155 led to decreased relative expression of PP2Ac mRNA and increased IL-2 release in cultured-stimulated PBMCs. This study suggests for the first time the possible role of an miR-155-PP2Ac loop in regulating IL-2 release and identifies miR-155 as a potential therapeutic target in juvenile SLE disease through relieving IL-2 from the inhibitory role of PP2A.

Lee, Y. H. and S. C. Bae (2015). "The miR-146a polymorphism and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis : a meta-analysis." Z Rheumatol 74(2): 153-156. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore whether the miR-146a polymorphism (rs2910164) confers susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: A meta-analysis was conducted on the association of the miR-146a polymorphism with SLE and RA. RESULTS: Five studies with 2013 patients and 2555 controls were included in the meta-analysis. Meta-analysis revealed no association between SLE and the miR-146a G allele (odds ratio, OR = 1.007, 95 % confidence interval, CI = 0.910-1.114, p = 0.888). Additionally, no associations were found between the miR-146a polymorphism and SLE using recessive or dominant models, or homozygote contrast. Meta-analysis using allele contrast, recessive and dominant models, as well as homozygote contrast failed to reveal an association between the miR-146a polymorphism and RA (OR for G allele = 1.114, 95 % CI = 0.892-1.391, p = 0.342). CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis demonstrates that the miR-146a polymorphism is not associated with susceptibility to SLE and RA. However, considering the small number of studies, further studies are needed to confirm this result.. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore whether the miR-146a polymorphism (rs2910164) confers susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: A meta-analysis was conducted on the association of the miR-146a polymorphism with SLE and RA. RESULTS: Five studies with 2013 patients and 2555 controls were included in the meta-analysis. Meta-analysis revealed no association between SLE and the miR-146a G allele (odds ratio, OR = 1.007, 95 % confidence interval, CI = 0.910-1.114, p = 0.888). Additionally, no associations were found between the miR-146a polymorphism and SLE using recessive or dominant models, or homozygote contrast. Meta-analysis using allele contrast, recessive and dominant models, as well as homozygote contrast failed to reveal an association between the miR-146a polymorphism and RA (OR for G allele = 1.114, 95 % CI = 0.892-1.391, p = 0.342). CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis demonstrates that the miR-146a polymorphism is not associated with susceptibility to SLE and RA. However, considering the small number of studies, further studies are needed to confirm this result.

Leng, R. X., H. F. Pan, et al. (2011). "Role of microRNA-155 in autoimmunity." Cytokine Growth Factor Rev 22(3): 141-147. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as a major class of gene expression regulators linked to most biological functions. MiR-155 is encoded within a region known as B cell integration cluster (Bic) gene, identified originally as a frequent integration site for the avian leukosis virus. Disregulation of endogenous miR-155 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of human cancers. Recently, aberrant expression of miR-155 was observed in many autoimmune conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), multiple sclerosis (MS), and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Moreover, functional analysis demonstrated that miR-155 has powerful regulatory potential in a wide variety of immune cells through targeting specific mRNAs. Since pathogenic immune cells play a pivotal role in pathogenesis of human autoimmune diseases, miR-155 might be a versatile therapeutic target. This review will discuss the current understandings for the role of miR-155 in autoimmunity.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as a major class of gene expression regulators linked to most biological functions. MiR-155 is encoded within a region known as B cell integration cluster (Bic) gene, identified originally as a frequent integration site for the avian leukosis virus. Disregulation of endogenous miR-155 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of human cancers. Recently, aberrant expression of miR-155 was observed in many autoimmune conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), multiple sclerosis (MS), and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Moreover, functional analysis demonstrated that miR-155 has powerful regulatory potential in a wide variety of immune cells through targeting specific mRNAs. Since pathogenic immune cells play a pivotal role in pathogenesis of human autoimmune diseases, miR-155 might be a versatile therapeutic target. This review will discuss the current understandings for the role of miR-155 in autoimmunity.

Lerman, G., M. Sharon, et al. (2014). "The crosstalk between IL-22 signaling and miR-197 in human keratinocytes." PLoS One 9(9): e107467. The interaction between the immune system and epithelial cells is tightly regulated. Aberrations of this balance may result in inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis. IL-22 is produced by Th17, Th22 and Th1 cells. Putative targets for IL-22 are cells in the skin, kidney, digestive and respiratory systems. The highest expression of IL-22 receptor is found in the skin. IL-22 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of T cell-mediated inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis. Recently, we found that miR-197 is down regulated in psoriatic lesions. In the present work we show that miR-197 over expression inhibits keratinocytes proliferation induced by IL-22 and keratinocytes migration. In addition, we found that IL-22 activates miR-197 expression through the binding of phosphorylated STAT3 to sequences in the putative promoter of miR-197. Finally we found that IL-22 receptor subunit IL22RA1 is a direct target of miR-197. Hence, we identified a novel feedback loop controlling IL-22 signaling, in which IL-22 induces miR-197, which in turn, negatively regulates IL-22 receptor and attenuates the biological outcome of such signaling. Regulation of this pathway may be important in inflammatory skin disorders such a psoriasis and in wound healing.. The interaction between the immune system and epithelial cells is tightly regulated. Aberrations of this balance may result in inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis. IL-22 is produced by Th17, Th22 and Th1 cells. Putative targets for IL-22 are cells in the skin, kidney, digestive and respiratory systems. The highest expression of IL-22 receptor is found in the skin. IL-22 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of T cell-mediated inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis. Recently, we found that miR-197 is down regulated in psoriatic lesions. In the present work we show that miR-197 over expression inhibits keratinocytes proliferation induced by IL-22 and keratinocytes migration. In addition, we found that IL-22 activates miR-197 expression through the binding of phosphorylated STAT3 to sequences in the putative promoter of miR-197. Finally we found that IL-22 receptor subunit IL22RA1 is a direct target of miR-197. Hence, we identified a novel feedback loop controlling IL-22 signaling, in which IL-22 induces miR-197, which in turn, negatively regulates IL-22 receptor and attenuates the biological outcome of such signaling. Regulation of this pathway may be important in inflammatory skin disorders such a psoriasis and in wound healing.

Li, B., N. Li, et al. (2018). "Hsa_circ_0001859 Regulates ATF2 Expression by Functioning as an MiR-204/211 Sponge in Human Rheumatoid Arthritis." J Immunol Res 2018: 9412387. Background: circRNAs are part of the competitive endogenous RNA network, which putatively function as miRNA sponges and play a crucial role in the development of numerous diseases. However, studies of circRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) disease are limited. This work aims to identify the expression pattern of circRNAs in synovial tissues and their inflammatory regulation mechanism. Methods: We first compared the mRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis patients with that in healthy volunteers by GEO database mining to identify gene loci specifically expressed in synovial tissues. Functional enrichment algorithms were then used to draw the interactome diagram of circRNAs-miRNAs-mRNAs. Finally, loss-of-function and rescue assays of the candidate circRNAs were performed in vitro. Results: A total of 29 differentially expressed circRNAs related to rheumatoid arthritis were discovered. Silencing of hsa_circ_0001859 suppressed ATF2 expression and decreased inflammatory activity in SW982 cells. Hsa_circ_0001859 could compete with ATF2 for miR-204/211. Discussion: These findings indicate that hsa_circ_0001859 participates deeply in the process of chronic inflammatory disease in synovial tissue.. Background: circRNAs are part of the competitive endogenous RNA network, which putatively function as miRNA sponges and play a crucial role in the development of numerous diseases. However, studies of circRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) disease are limited. This work aims to identify the expression pattern of circRNAs in synovial tissues and their inflammatory regulation mechanism. Methods: We first compared the mRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis patients with that in healthy volunteers by GEO database mining to identify gene loci specifically expressed in synovial tissues. Functional enrichment algorithms were then used to draw the interactome diagram of circRNAs-miRNAs-mRNAs. Finally, loss-of-function and rescue assays of the candidate circRNAs were performed in vitro. Results: A total of 29 differentially expressed circRNAs related to rheumatoid arthritis were discovered. Silencing of hsa_circ_0001859 suppressed ATF2 expression and decreased inflammatory activity in SW982 cells. Hsa_circ_0001859 could compete with ATF2 for miR-204/211. Discussion: These findings indicate that hsa_circ_0001859 participates deeply in the process of chronic inflammatory disease in synovial tissue.

Li, H., S. B. Guan, et al. (2017). "MiR-140-5p inhibits synovial fibroblasts proliferation and inflammatory cytokines secretion through targeting TLR4." Biomed Pharmacother 96: 208-214. OBJECTIVES: This study was aimed to investigate the effects of miR-140-5p on the proliferation and inflammatory cytokines secretion of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: Synovial tissue samples from 23 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and 18 normal synovial tissue samples were collected. The RASFs were isolated and cultured. Then, miR-140-5p and TLR4 expression in both synovial tissue and RASFs were detected using the quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and western blot. Dual luciferase reporter gene assay was employed to evaluate the interaction between miR-140-5p and 3'UTR of TLR4. Western blotting and qPCR were used to examine TLR2 expression after upregulation or downregulation of miR-140-5p in RASFs. After RASFs co-infected with TLR4 overexpression lentivirus and lentivirus containing miR-140-5p or miR-control respectively, the cellular proliferation and secretion of IL-6 and IL-8 level were detected through the MTS assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. RESULTS: MiR-140-5p was significantly down-regulated, and TLR4 was significantly up-regulated in synovial tissue samples from 23 RA patients and RASFs. Dual luciferase activity assay showed that miR-140-5p could specifically bind to the 3'UTR of TLR4. Down-regulation or up-regulation of miR-140-5p not only significantly increased or decreased the expression of TLR4, but also could promote or inhibit RASF proliferation and secretion of IL-6, and IL-8 in RASFs. Furthermore, overexpression of TLR4 can reverse the inhibitory effects of miR-140-5p on proliferation and inflammatory cytokines release of RASFs. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-140-5p could inhibit the proliferation and secretion of IL-6 and IL-8 through regulation of TLR4 expression.. OBJECTIVES: This study was aimed to investigate the effects of miR-140-5p on the proliferation and inflammatory cytokines secretion of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: Synovial tissue samples from 23 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and 18 normal synovial tissue samples were collected. The RASFs were isolated and cultured. Then, miR-140-5p and TLR4 expression in both synovial tissue and RASFs were detected using the quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and western blot. Dual luciferase reporter gene assay was employed to evaluate the interaction between miR-140-5p and 3'UTR of TLR4. Western blotting and qPCR were used to examine TLR2 expression after upregulation or downregulation of miR-140-5p in RASFs. After RASFs co-infected with TLR4 overexpression lentivirus and lentivirus containing miR-140-5p or miR-control respectively, the cellular proliferation and secretion of IL-6 and IL-8 level were detected through the MTS assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. RESULTS: MiR-140-5p was significantly down-regulated, and TLR4 was significantly up-regulated in synovial tissue samples from 23 RA patients and RASFs. Dual luciferase activity assay showed that miR-140-5p could specifically bind to the 3'UTR of TLR4. Down-regulation or up-regulation of miR-140-5p not only significantly increased or decreased the expression of TLR4, but also could promote or inhibit RASF proliferation and secretion of IL-6, and IL-8 in RASFs. Furthermore, overexpression of TLR4 can reverse the inhibitory effects of miR-140-5p on proliferation and inflammatory cytokines release of RASFs. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-140-5p could inhibit the proliferation and secretion of IL-6 and IL-8 through regulation of TLR4 expression.

Li, J., Y. Wan, et al. (2010). "Altered microRNA expression profile with miR-146a upregulation in CD4+ T cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis." Arthritis Res Ther 12(3): R81. INTRODUCTION: Increasing evidence indicates that microRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. The aim of the study was to investigate the expression pattern and function of miRNAs in CD4+ T cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: The expression profile of miRNAs in CD4+ T cells from synovial fluid (SF) and peripheral blood of 33 RA patients was determined by microarray assay and validated by qRT-PCR analysis. The correlation between altered expression of miRNAs and cytokine levels was determined by linear regression analysis. The role of miR-146a overexpression in regulating T cell apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry. A genome-wide gene expression analysis was further performed to identify miR-146a-regulated genes in T cells. RESULTS: miRNA expression profile analysis revealed that miR-146a expression was significantly upregulated while miR-363 and miR-498 were downregulated in CD4+ T cells of RA patients. The level of miR-146a expression was positively correlated with levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and in vitro studies showed TNF-alpha upregulated miR-146a expression in T cells. Moreover, miR-146a overexpression was found to suppress Jurkat T cell apoptosis. Finally, transcriptome analysis of miR-146a overexpression in T cells identified Fas associated factor 1 (FAF1) as a miR-146a-regulated gene, which was critically involved in modulating T cell apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: We have detected increased miR-146a in CD4+ T cells of RA patients and its close correlation with TNF-alpha levels. Our findings that miR-146a overexpression suppresses T cell apoptosis indicate a role of miR-146a in RA pathogenesis and provide potential novel therapeutic targets.. INTRODUCTION: Increasing evidence indicates that microRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. The aim of the study was to investigate the expression pattern and function of miRNAs in CD4+ T cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: The expression profile of miRNAs in CD4+ T cells from synovial fluid (SF) and peripheral blood of 33 RA patients was determined by microarray assay and validated by qRT-PCR analysis. The correlation between altered expression of miRNAs and cytokine levels was determined by linear regression analysis. The role of miR-146a overexpression in regulating T cell apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry. A genome-wide gene expression analysis was further performed to identify miR-146a-regulated genes in T cells. RESULTS: miRNA expression profile analysis revealed that miR-146a expression was significantly upregulated while miR-363 and miR-498 were downregulated in CD4+ T cells of RA patients. The level of miR-146a expression was positively correlated with levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and in vitro studies showed TNF-alpha upregulated miR-146a expression in T cells. Moreover, miR-146a overexpression was found to suppress Jurkat T cell apoptosis. Finally, transcriptome analysis of miR-146a overexpression in T cells identified Fas associated factor 1 (FAF1) as a miR-146a-regulated gene, which was critically involved in modulating T cell apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: We have detected increased miR-146a in CD4+ T cells of RA patients and its close correlation with TNF-alpha levels. Our findings that miR-146a overexpression suppresses T cell apoptosis indicate a role of miR-146a in RA pathogenesis and provide potential novel therapeutic targets.

Li, K., H. Tie, et al. (2014). "Association of two polymorphisms rs2910164 in miRNA-146a and rs3746444 in miRNA-499 with rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis." Hum Immunol 75(7): 602-608. BACKGROUND: It has been reported that two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs2910164 in miRNA-146a and rs3746444 in miRNA-499 might be associated with the susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Owing to mixed and inconclusive results, we conducted a meta-analysis to systematically summarize and clarify the association between the two SNPs and RA risk. METHODOLOGY/MAIN RESULTS: A systematic search of studies on the association of two SNPs with susceptibility to RA was conducted in PubMed and Embase. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were used to pool the effect size. A total of 6 case-control studies on rs2910164 and 3 studies on rs3746444 were included. Though no evidence of association was found between rs2910164 polymorphism and RA risk in all the genetic models, a trend of reduced risk could be drawn. (C versus G: OR=0.93, 95% CI 0.82-1.05; GC versus GG: OR=0.89, 95% CI 0.73-1.10; CC versus GG: OR=0.84, 95% CI 0.64-1.10; GC/CC versus GG: OR=0.89, 95% CI 0.73-1.08; CC versus GC/GG: OR=0.94, 95% CI 0.77-1.14). A significant increased risk of RA was observed in the rs3746444 polymorphism in homozygote comparison, recessive comparison, and allele comparison, but there was insufficient data to fully confirm the association of RA and rs3746444 in miRNA-499. CONCLUSIONS: MiRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism is not associated with RA risk, while miRNA-499 rs3746444 polymorphism is correlated with RA risk. However, the results of miRNA-499 rs3746444 should be interpreted with caution due to limited sample and heterogeneity. Large-scale and well-designed studies are needed to validate our findings.. BACKGROUND: It has been reported that two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs2910164 in miRNA-146a and rs3746444 in miRNA-499 might be associated with the susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Owing to mixed and inconclusive results, we conducted a meta-analysis to systematically summarize and clarify the association between the two SNPs and RA risk. METHODOLOGY/MAIN RESULTS: A systematic search of studies on the association of two SNPs with susceptibility to RA was conducted in PubMed and Embase. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were used to pool the effect size. A total of 6 case-control studies on rs2910164 and 3 studies on rs3746444 were included. Though no evidence of association was found between rs2910164 polymorphism and RA risk in all the genetic models, a trend of reduced risk could be drawn. (C versus G: OR=0.93, 95% CI 0.82-1.05; GC versus GG: OR=0.89, 95% CI 0.73-1.10; CC versus GG: OR=0.84, 95% CI 0.64-1.10; GC/CC versus GG: OR=0.89, 95% CI 0.73-1.08; CC versus GC/GG: OR=0.94, 95% CI 0.77-1.14). A significant increased risk of RA was observed in the rs3746444 polymorphism in homozygote comparison, recessive comparison, and allele comparison, but there was insufficient data to fully confirm the association of RA and rs3746444 in miRNA-499. CONCLUSIONS: MiRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism is not associated with RA risk, while miRNA-499 rs3746444 polymorphism is correlated with RA risk. However, the results of miRNA-499 rs3746444 should be interpreted with caution due to limited sample and heterogeneity. Large-scale and well-designed studies are needed to validate our findings.

Li, S., Z. Jin, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA-192 suppresses cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in human rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes by downregulating caveolin 1." Mol Cell Biochem 432(1-2): 123-130. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) play an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study was conducted to explore the role of microRNA (miR)-192 in the regulation of the biology of RA-FLSs. The expression of miR-192 in RA and healthy synovial tissues was measured. The effects of overexpression of miR-192 on RA-FLS proliferation and apoptosis were investigated. Luciferase reporter assay and Western blot analysis were performed to identify direct target genes of miR-192. RA synovial tissues had significantly lower levels of miR-192 than healthy controls (P = 0.004). Moreover, miR-192 levels were 2.9-fold lower in RA-FLSs relative to normal human FLSs (P < 0.05). Ectopic expression of miR-192 significantly inhibited the proliferation and caused a cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase in RA-FLSs. Moreover, miR-192 overexpression triggered apoptosis, which was accompanied by an increase in caspase-3 activity and Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. Caveolin 1 (CAV1) was identified to be a direct target of miR-192. Overexpression of miR-192 led to a reduction of endogenous CAV1 in RA-FLSs. Silencing of CAV1 significantly decreased cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis in RA-FLSs. Rescue experiments with a miR-192-resistant variant of CAV1 showed that enforced expression of CAV1 restored cell proliferation and attenuated apoptosis in miR-192-overexpressing RA-FLSs. In conclusion, miR-192 is downregulated in RA synovial tissues and restoration of its expression elicits growth-suppressive effects on RA-FLSs by targeting CAV1. The miR-192/CAV1 pathway may represent a novel target for prevention and treatment of RA.. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) play an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study was conducted to explore the role of microRNA (miR)-192 in the regulation of the biology of RA-FLSs. The expression of miR-192 in RA and healthy synovial tissues was measured. The effects of overexpression of miR-192 on RA-FLS proliferation and apoptosis were investigated. Luciferase reporter assay and Western blot analysis were performed to identify direct target genes of miR-192. RA synovial tissues had significantly lower levels of miR-192 than healthy controls (P = 0.004). Moreover, miR-192 levels were 2.9-fold lower in RA-FLSs relative to normal human FLSs (P < 0.05). Ectopic expression of miR-192 significantly inhibited the proliferation and caused a cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase in RA-FLSs. Moreover, miR-192 overexpression triggered apoptosis, which was accompanied by an increase in caspase-3 activity and Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. Caveolin 1 (CAV1) was identified to be a direct target of miR-192. Overexpression of miR-192 led to a reduction of endogenous CAV1 in RA-FLSs. Silencing of CAV1 significantly decreased cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis in RA-FLSs. Rescue experiments with a miR-192-resistant variant of CAV1 showed that enforced expression of CAV1 restored cell proliferation and attenuated apoptosis in miR-192-overexpressing RA-FLSs. In conclusion, miR-192 is downregulated in RA synovial tissues and restoration of its expression elicits growth-suppressive effects on RA-FLSs by targeting CAV1. The miR-192/CAV1 pathway may represent a novel target for prevention and treatment of RA.

Li, T. M., S. C. Liu, et al. (2017). "YKL-40-Induced Inhibition of miR-590-3p Promotes Interleukin-18 Expression and Angiogenesis of Endothelial Progenitor Cells." Int J Mol Sci 18(5)YKL-40, also known as human cartilage glycoprotein-39 or chitinase-3-like-1, is a pro-inflammatory protein that is highly expressed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Angiogenesis is a critical step in the pathogenesis of RA, promoting the infiltration of inflammatory cells into joints and providing oxygen and nutrients to RA pannus. In this study, we examined the effects of YKL-40 in the production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL-18), and the stimulation of angiogenesis and accumulation of osteoblasts. We observed that YKL-40 induces IL-18 production in osteoblasts and thereby stimulates angiogenesis of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). We found that this process occurs through the suppression of miR-590-3p via the focal adhesion kinase (FAK)/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. YKL-40 inhibition reduced angiogenesis in in vivo models of angiogenesis: the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) and Matrigel plug models. We report that YKL-40 stimulates IL-18 expression in osteoblasts and facilitates EPC angiogenesis.. YKL-40, also known as human cartilage glycoprotein-39 or chitinase-3-like-1, is a pro-inflammatory protein that is highly expressed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Angiogenesis is a critical step in the pathogenesis of RA, promoting the infiltration of inflammatory cells into joints and providing oxygen and nutrients to RA pannus. In this study, we examined the effects of YKL-40 in the production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL-18), and the stimulation of angiogenesis and accumulation of osteoblasts. We observed that YKL-40 induces IL-18 production in osteoblasts and thereby stimulates angiogenesis of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). We found that this process occurs through the suppression of miR-590-3p via the focal adhesion kinase (FAK)/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. YKL-40 inhibition reduced angiogenesis in in vivo models of angiogenesis: the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) and Matrigel plug models. We report that YKL-40 stimulates IL-18 expression in osteoblasts and facilitates EPC angiogenesis.

Li, X., F. Tian, et al. (2013). "Rheumatoid arthritis-associated microRNA-155 targets SOCS1 and upregulates TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in PBMCs." Int J Mol Sci 14(12): 23910-23921. miR-155 plays a crucial role in proinflammatory activation. This study was carried out to assess the association of abnormal expression of miR-155 in peripheral blood of patients with Rheumatoid arthritis with the expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. Release of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, and expression of miR-155 were determined in RA peripheral blood or peripheral blood macrophages, followed by correlation analysis of the cytokines release and miR-155 expression. Furthermore, in vitro studies indicate that miR-155 inhibited the expression of SOCS1. Our results suggest that there is a correlation between the high-level expression of miR-155 and the enhanced expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. miR-155 targets and suppresses the expression of SOCS1, and the decrease of SOCS1 may lead to the upregulation of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta.. miR-155 plays a crucial role in proinflammatory activation. This study was carried out to assess the association of abnormal expression of miR-155 in peripheral blood of patients with Rheumatoid arthritis with the expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. Release of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, and expression of miR-155 were determined in RA peripheral blood or peripheral blood macrophages, followed by correlation analysis of the cytokines release and miR-155 expression. Furthermore, in vitro studies indicate that miR-155 inhibited the expression of SOCS1. Our results suggest that there is a correlation between the high-level expression of miR-155 and the enhanced expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. miR-155 targets and suppresses the expression of SOCS1, and the decrease of SOCS1 may lead to the upregulation of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta.

Li, X. F., W. W. Shen, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-20a negatively regulates expression of NLRP3-inflammasome by targeting TXNIP in adjuvant-induced arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes." Joint Bone Spine 83(6): 695-700. OBJECTIVES: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a heterogenic and systemic autoimmune disease characterized by synovitis and joint structural damage. However, the pathogenesis of RA is still obscure. It has been reported microRNA-20a (miRNA-20a) was significantly associated with the regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines release in RA FLS. The purpose of this study was to explore the function and underlying mechanisms of miRNA-20a on NLRP3-inflammasome in adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) in vitro. METHODS: In this study, using a combination of Western blotting, Q-PCR, and ELISA analysis, we investigated the influence and function of miRNA-20a on NLRP3-inflammasome by targeting TXNIP in AA FLSs. RESULTS: In the present study, the expression of NLRP3-inflammasome was significant up-regulated in AA model in vitro. Our study indicated that silence of NLRP3 down-regulated the expression of NLRP3-inflammasome and the secretion of IL-1beta and MMP-1. Moreover, over-expression of miR-20a decreased formation of NLRP3-inflammasome, including NLRP3, ASC and caspase-1, and suppressed the secretion of IL-1beta and MMP-1, along with down-regulated the expressions of TXNIP in primary FLSs isolated from AA. With the combined use of prediction programs and luciferase assay, the rat TXNIP mRNA 3'UTR predicted to be targeted by miR-20a. Similarly, inhibitor TXNIP expression by TXNIP-siRNA markedly repressed formation of NLRP3-inflammasome and the secretion of IL-1beta and MMP-1. CONCLUSION: Taken together, these results indicate that miR-20a may play a pivotal role in the NLRP3-inflammasome by targeted inhibit TXNIP expression in AA FLSs.. OBJECTIVES: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a heterogenic and systemic autoimmune disease characterized by synovitis and joint structural damage. However, the pathogenesis of RA is still obscure. It has been reported microRNA-20a (miRNA-20a) was significantly associated with the regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines release in RA FLS. The purpose of this study was to explore the function and underlying mechanisms of miRNA-20a on NLRP3-inflammasome in adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) in vitro. METHODS: In this study, using a combination of Western blotting, Q-PCR, and ELISA analysis, we investigated the influence and function of miRNA-20a on NLRP3-inflammasome by targeting TXNIP in AA FLSs. RESULTS: In the present study, the expression of NLRP3-inflammasome was significant up-regulated in AA model in vitro. Our study indicated that silence of NLRP3 down-regulated the expression of NLRP3-inflammasome and the secretion of IL-1beta and MMP-1. Moreover, over-expression of miR-20a decreased formation of NLRP3-inflammasome, including NLRP3, ASC and caspase-1, and suppressed the secretion of IL-1beta and MMP-1, along with down-regulated the expressions of TXNIP in primary FLSs isolated from AA. With the combined use of prediction programs and luciferase assay, the rat TXNIP mRNA 3'UTR predicted to be targeted by miR-20a. Similarly, inhibitor TXNIP expression by TXNIP-siRNA markedly repressed formation of NLRP3-inflammasome and the secretion of IL-1beta and MMP-1. CONCLUSION: Taken together, these results indicate that miR-20a may play a pivotal role in the NLRP3-inflammasome by targeted inhibit TXNIP expression in AA FLSs.

Li, Y. T., S. Y. Chen, et al. (2012). "Brief report: amelioration of collagen-induced arthritis in mice by lentivirus-mediated silencing of microRNA-223." Arthritis Rheum 64(10): 3240-3245. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miRNA) plays a role in autoimmune diseases. MiRNA-223 (miR-223) is up-regulated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and is involved in osteoclastogenesis, which contributes to erosive disease. The aim of this study was to test the feasibility of using lentiviral vectors expressing the miR-223 target sequence (miR-223T) to suppress miR-223 activity as a therapeutic strategy in a mouse model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). METHODS: Levels of miR-223 in the synovial tissue of patients with RA or osteoarthritis (OA), as well as in the ankle joints of mice with CIA, were determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Lentiviral vectors expressing miR-223T (LVmiR-223T) or luciferase short hairpin RNA (LVshLuc) as a control vector were injected intraperitoneally into mice with CIA. Treatment responses and disease-related bone mineral density were monitored. Levels of nuclear factor 1A (NF-1A), a direct target of miR-223, and macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (M-CSFR), which is critical for osteoclastogenesis, were measured by immunohistochemistry and quantitative RT-PCR. Osteoclasts were assessed by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining. RESULTS: MiR-223 expression was significantly higher in the synovium of RA patients and in the ankle joints of mice with CIA as compared to OA patients and normal mice. LVmiR-223T treatment reduced the arthritis score, histologic score, miR-223 expression, osteoclastogenesis, and bone erosion in mice with CIA. Down-regulation of miR-223 with concomitant increases in NF-1A levels and decreases in M-CSFR levels was detected in the synovium of LVmiR-223T-treated mice. CONCLUSION: This study is the first to demonstrate that lentivirus-mediated silencing of miR-223 can reduce disease severity of experimental arthritis. Furthermore, our results indicate that inhibition of miR-223 activity should be further explored as a therapeutic strategy in RA.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miRNA) plays a role in autoimmune diseases. MiRNA-223 (miR-223) is up-regulated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and is involved in osteoclastogenesis, which contributes to erosive disease. The aim of this study was to test the feasibility of using lentiviral vectors expressing the miR-223 target sequence (miR-223T) to suppress miR-223 activity as a therapeutic strategy in a mouse model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). METHODS: Levels of miR-223 in the synovial tissue of patients with RA or osteoarthritis (OA), as well as in the ankle joints of mice with CIA, were determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Lentiviral vectors expressing miR-223T (LVmiR-223T) or luciferase short hairpin RNA (LVshLuc) as a control vector were injected intraperitoneally into mice with CIA. Treatment responses and disease-related bone mineral density were monitored. Levels of nuclear factor 1A (NF-1A), a direct target of miR-223, and macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (M-CSFR), which is critical for osteoclastogenesis, were measured by immunohistochemistry and quantitative RT-PCR. Osteoclasts were assessed by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining. RESULTS: MiR-223 expression was significantly higher in the synovium of RA patients and in the ankle joints of mice with CIA as compared to OA patients and normal mice. LVmiR-223T treatment reduced the arthritis score, histologic score, miR-223 expression, osteoclastogenesis, and bone erosion in mice with CIA. Down-regulation of miR-223 with concomitant increases in NF-1A levels and decreases in M-CSFR levels was detected in the synovium of LVmiR-223T-treated mice. CONCLUSION: This study is the first to demonstrate that lentivirus-mediated silencing of miR-223 can reduce disease severity of experimental arthritis. Furthermore, our results indicate that inhibition of miR-223 activity should be further explored as a therapeutic strategy in RA.

Liao, T. L., S. L. Hsieh, et al. (2018). "Rituximab May Cause Increased Hepatitis C Virus Viremia in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients Through Declining Exosomal MicroRNA-155." Arthritis Rheumatol 70(8): 1209-1219. OBJECTIVE: Several studies have shown that rituximab may enhance hepatitis C virus (HCV) activity. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in modulating the host immune response in HCV infection; miRNAs can be packaged into the exosomes and then shuttled by the exosomes to aid biologic functions. However, the role of exosomal miRNAs (exo-miRNAs) in rituximab-related HCV activity enhancement remains unclear. METHODS: The association between rituximab and increased HCV activity was examined using an in vitro cell-based assay. Purified exosomes were confirmed using immunoblotting and flow cytometry and quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Exosomal miRNA-155 (exo-miR-155) levels were measured using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: In vitro data showed that B cell-derived miR-155 could inhibit HCV replication in hepatocytes through exosome transmission. Rituximab could both induce B cell depletion and affect intracellular miR-155 production as well as exo-miR-155 transmission and then enhance HCV activity in hepatocytes (P < 0.005). Serum exosome levels were increased in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with HCV infection compared with the levels in RA patients without HCV infection (P < 0.01). The exo-miR-155 levels were significantly increased in RA patients with HCV infection compared with those without infection (P < 0.01). A significantly greater decrement of exo-miR-155 expression was observed after rituximab therapy compared with those observed before therapy (P < 0.01), and hepatitis C viral loads increased simultaneously (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Circulating exo-miR-155 levels were negatively correlated with hepatitis C viral loads and subsequently associated with rituximab-related HCV activity enhancement in RA patients. Exo-miR-155 may become a potential diagnostic biomarker or therapeutic target.. OBJECTIVE: Several studies have shown that rituximab may enhance hepatitis C virus (HCV) activity. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in modulating the host immune response in HCV infection; miRNAs can be packaged into the exosomes and then shuttled by the exosomes to aid biologic functions. However, the role of exosomal miRNAs (exo-miRNAs) in rituximab-related HCV activity enhancement remains unclear. METHODS: The association between rituximab and increased HCV activity was examined using an in vitro cell-based assay. Purified exosomes were confirmed using immunoblotting and flow cytometry and quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Exosomal miRNA-155 (exo-miR-155) levels were measured using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: In vitro data showed that B cell-derived miR-155 could inhibit HCV replication in hepatocytes through exosome transmission. Rituximab could both induce B cell depletion and affect intracellular miR-155 production as well as exo-miR-155 transmission and then enhance HCV activity in hepatocytes (P < 0.005). Serum exosome levels were increased in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with HCV infection compared with the levels in RA patients without HCV infection (P < 0.01). The exo-miR-155 levels were significantly increased in RA patients with HCV infection compared with those without infection (P < 0.01). A significantly greater decrement of exo-miR-155 expression was observed after rituximab therapy compared with those observed before therapy (P < 0.01), and hepatitis C viral loads increased simultaneously (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Circulating exo-miR-155 levels were negatively correlated with hepatitis C viral loads and subsequently associated with rituximab-related HCV activity enhancement in RA patients. Exo-miR-155 may become a potential diagnostic biomarker or therapeutic target.

Lin, J., R. Huo, et al. (2014). "A novel p53/microRNA-22/Cyr61 axis in synovial cells regulates inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis." Arthritis Rheumatol 66(1): 49-59. OBJECTIVE: We previously showed that Cyr61 acts to promote fibroblast-like synoviocyte (FLS) proliferation and Th17 cell differentiation, suggesting that Cyr61 plays an important role in mediating the joint inflammation and damage in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim of this study was to investigate whether Cyr61 expression is regulated at the posttranscription level, and if so, how this regulation connects to other etiologic factors in RA. METHODS: Expression of microRNA-22 (miR-22) in synovial tissue was detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using miRNA-specific TaqMan MGB probes. MicroRNA-22 promoter activity was analyzed using a Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay. Cytokine expression was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and the expression of other factors was measured by real-time PCR or Western blotting. RESULTS: MicroRNA-22 directly targeted the 3'-untranslated region of Cyr61 messenger RNA and inhibited Cyr61 expression. Expression of miR-22 was down-regulated and was negatively correlated with Cyr61 expression in RA synovial tissue. Furthermore, wild-type p53 activated miR-22 transcription by binding to the promoter region of the miR-22 gene, while the mutant forms of p53 frequently found in RA synovial tissue were shown to have lost the ability to activate miR-22 expression. As a result, miR-22 was down-regulated, contributing to the overexpression of Cyr61 in RA FLS. CONCLUSION: Our results not only reveal a novel mechanism whereby p53 is involved in the posttranscriptional regulation of Cyr61 expression via miRNA-22, but also provide a molecular explanation for the role of somatic mutations of p53, which are frequently observed in RA synovial tissue, in the etiology of this autoimmune disease.. OBJECTIVE: We previously showed that Cyr61 acts to promote fibroblast-like synoviocyte (FLS) proliferation and Th17 cell differentiation, suggesting that Cyr61 plays an important role in mediating the joint inflammation and damage in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim of this study was to investigate whether Cyr61 expression is regulated at the posttranscription level, and if so, how this regulation connects to other etiologic factors in RA. METHODS: Expression of microRNA-22 (miR-22) in synovial tissue was detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using miRNA-specific TaqMan MGB probes. MicroRNA-22 promoter activity was analyzed using a Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay. Cytokine expression was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and the expression of other factors was measured by real-time PCR or Western blotting. RESULTS: MicroRNA-22 directly targeted the 3'-untranslated region of Cyr61 messenger RNA and inhibited Cyr61 expression. Expression of miR-22 was down-regulated and was negatively correlated with Cyr61 expression in RA synovial tissue. Furthermore, wild-type p53 activated miR-22 transcription by binding to the promoter region of the miR-22 gene, while the mutant forms of p53 frequently found in RA synovial tissue were shown to have lost the ability to activate miR-22 expression. As a result, miR-22 was down-regulated, contributing to the overexpression of Cyr61 in RA FLS. CONCLUSION: Our results not only reveal a novel mechanism whereby p53 is involved in the posttranscriptional regulation of Cyr61 expression via miRNA-22, but also provide a molecular explanation for the role of somatic mutations of p53, which are frequently observed in RA synovial tissue, in the etiology of this autoimmune disease.

Liu, J., D. Fei, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA-29a inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes by repressing STAT3." Biomed Pharmacother 96: 173-181. Rheumatoid arthritis-fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) with aberrant expression of microRNA (miRNA) have been reported to be involved in the initiation, progression, and perpetuation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In this study, we explored the biological function and underlying mechanism of microRNA-29a (miR-29a) in cultured RA-FLS from RA patients. The expression of miR-29a in serum, synovial tissues, and FLS from RA patients and health donors was detected by real-time quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). The effects of miR-29a on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammatory cytokine levels in RA-FLS were also determined using Counting Assay Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) respectively. Luciferase reporter assay was carried out to identify the target genes of miR-29a. We observed that expression of miR-29a was markedly downregulated in serum, synovial tissues and FLS of RA patients. miR-29a overexpression in RA-FLS significantly inhibited proliferation, promoted apoptosis, and suppressed expression of inflammatory cytokines. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was identified to be a direct target of miR-29a in RA-FLS. miR-29a overexpression suppressed the expression of STAT3, as well as phosphorylated STAT3(p-STAT3) and its downstream targets protein (Cyclin D1 and Bcl-2). In addition, the levels of miR-29a were inversely correlated with that of STAT3 in synovial tissues. Rescue experiments showed that overexpression of STAT3 effectively reversed the effect of miR-29a on proliferation and apoptosis in RA-FLS. These data indicate that miR-29a inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in RA-FLS by targeting STAT3, suggesting that promoting miR-29a expression may yield therapeutic benefits in the treatment of RA.. Rheumatoid arthritis-fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) with aberrant expression of microRNA (miRNA) have been reported to be involved in the initiation, progression, and perpetuation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In this study, we explored the biological function and underlying mechanism of microRNA-29a (miR-29a) in cultured RA-FLS from RA patients. The expression of miR-29a in serum, synovial tissues, and FLS from RA patients and health donors was detected by real-time quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). The effects of miR-29a on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammatory cytokine levels in RA-FLS were also determined using Counting Assay Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) respectively. Luciferase reporter assay was carried out to identify the target genes of miR-29a. We observed that expression of miR-29a was markedly downregulated in serum, synovial tissues and FLS of RA patients. miR-29a overexpression in RA-FLS significantly inhibited proliferation, promoted apoptosis, and suppressed expression of inflammatory cytokines. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was identified to be a direct target of miR-29a in RA-FLS. miR-29a overexpression suppressed the expression of STAT3, as well as phosphorylated STAT3(p-STAT3) and its downstream targets protein (Cyclin D1 and Bcl-2). In addition, the levels of miR-29a were inversely correlated with that of STAT3 in synovial tissues. Rescue experiments showed that overexpression of STAT3 effectively reversed the effect of miR-29a on proliferation and apoptosis in RA-FLS. These data indicate that miR-29a inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in RA-FLS by targeting STAT3, suggesting that promoting miR-29a expression may yield therapeutic benefits in the treatment of RA.

Liu, N., X. Feng, et al. (2017). "Paeonol protects against TNF-alpha-induced proliferation and cytokine release of rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes by upregulating FOXO3 through inhibition of miR-155 expression." Inflamm Res 66(7): 603-610. BACKGROUND: Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) play an essential role in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Paeonol (Pae) is a phenolic compound found in many traditional Chinese medicine remedies. However, the effects of Pae on TNF-alpha-stimulated FLS and the underlying molecular mechanism are unknown. In this study, we aimed to investigate the anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory effect of Pae against activated FLS. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rheumatoid arthritis FLS (RA-FLS) were pre-treated with different doses (25, 50, and 100 microM) of Pae or miR-155 inhibitor for 30 min or transfected with miR-155 mimic, and then treated with 50 ng/mL of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) for 1 h. Cells that were untreated served as control. At 24 h after drug pretreatment, the proliferation of FLS was detected using the MTT assay. The concentrations of interleukin IL-6 and IL-1beta in cell culture supernatant were examined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and mRNA levels of Foxo3 and miR-155 expression in FLS were quantified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Protein expressions of forkhead box O3 (FOXO3), cyclin D1, and c-Myc were detected by Western Blot. RESULTS: TNF-alpha induced the proliferation of FLS, whereas Pae inhibited this proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Pae attenuated TNF-alpha-induced production of IL-6 and IL-1beta, and inhibited the expression of miR-155 in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, miR-155 inhibitor decreased TNF-alpha-induced proliferation of FLS, and attenuated TNF-alpha-induced production of IL-6 and IL-1beta. In addition, pretreatment with different doses of Pae or miR-155 inhibitor markedly attenuated TNF-alpha-induced decrease in protein expression of FOXO3 in FLS. Mechanistic studies revealed FOXO3 as miR-155-5p direct target and inhibition of FOXO3 led to the abolishment of Pae protective effects. CONCLUSIONS: Paeonol protected against TNF-alpha-induced proliferation and cytokine release of FLS by decreasing the expression of miR-155 and upregulating its target FOXO3.. BACKGROUND: Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) play an essential role in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Paeonol (Pae) is a phenolic compound found in many traditional Chinese medicine remedies. However, the effects of Pae on TNF-alpha-stimulated FLS and the underlying molecular mechanism are unknown. In this study, we aimed to investigate the anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory effect of Pae against activated FLS. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rheumatoid arthritis FLS (RA-FLS) were pre-treated with different doses (25, 50, and 100 microM) of Pae or miR-155 inhibitor for 30 min or transfected with miR-155 mimic, and then treated with 50 ng/mL of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) for 1 h. Cells that were untreated served as control. At 24 h after drug pretreatment, the proliferation of FLS was detected using the MTT assay. The concentrations of interleukin IL-6 and IL-1beta in cell culture supernatant were examined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and mRNA levels of Foxo3 and miR-155 expression in FLS were quantified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Protein expressions of forkhead box O3 (FOXO3), cyclin D1, and c-Myc were detected by Western Blot. RESULTS: TNF-alpha induced the proliferation of FLS, whereas Pae inhibited this proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Pae attenuated TNF-alpha-induced production of IL-6 and IL-1beta, and inhibited the expression of miR-155 in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, miR-155 inhibitor decreased TNF-alpha-induced proliferation of FLS, and attenuated TNF-alpha-induced production of IL-6 and IL-1beta. In addition, pretreatment with different doses of Pae or miR-155 inhibitor markedly attenuated TNF-alpha-induced decrease in protein expression of FOXO3 in FLS. Mechanistic studies revealed FOXO3 as miR-155-5p direct target and inhibition of FOXO3 led to the abolishment of Pae protective effects. CONCLUSIONS: Paeonol protected against TNF-alpha-induced proliferation and cytokine release of FLS by decreasing the expression of miR-155 and upregulating its target FOXO3.

Liu, W., Y. H. Wu, et al. (2018). "MicroRNA-146a suppresses rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes proliferation and inflammatory responses by inhibiting the TLR4/NF-kB signaling." Oncotarget 9(35): 23944-23959. This study investigated whether microRNA-146a (miR-146a) mediating TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway affected proliferation and inflammatory responses of rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes from 12 RA patients (RA-FLSs). FLSs in the logarithmic growth phase were assigned into the control, miR-146a mimic miR-146a inhibitor, Tak-242 (treated with TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway inhibitor) and mimic + lipopolysaccharide (LPS) groups. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were detected using CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry. The expression of miR-146a, TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway-related proteins and cytokines were determined by RT-qPCR, western blotting and ELISA, and the release of NO by Greiss reaction. RA rat models were constructed and the primary cells were classified into the control, negative control (NC), miR-146a mimic, miR-146a inhibitor, Tak-242, mimic + LPS, and TLR4 groups. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and intercellular adhesion molecular-1 (ICAM-1). The results showed that miR-146a levels were lower in RA-FLSs than control fibroblasts. miR-146a mimic and Tak-242 decreased RA-FLS proliferation and increased RA-FLS apoptosis, while miR-146a inhibitor had an opposite trend. miR-146a mimic and Tak-242 also decreased expression of TLR4, NF-kappaB, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, COX-2, MMP-3, Seprase, and iNOS, as well as reduced NO level in RA-FLSs while miR-146a inhibitor and TLR4 increased them. TLR4 and NF-kappaB levels and the positive rates of PCNA and ICAM-1 expressions were lower in RA-FLSs from RA rats given miR-146a mimic from control or miR-146a inhibitor-treated rats. These results suggest that miR-146a inhibits the proliferation and inflammatory response of RA-FLSs by down-regulating TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway.. This study investigated whether microRNA-146a (miR-146a) mediating TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway affected proliferation and inflammatory responses of rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes from 12 RA patients (RA-FLSs). FLSs in the logarithmic growth phase were assigned into the control, miR-146a mimic miR-146a inhibitor, Tak-242 (treated with TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway inhibitor) and mimic + lipopolysaccharide (LPS) groups. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were detected using CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry. The expression of miR-146a, TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway-related proteins and cytokines were determined by RT-qPCR, western blotting and ELISA, and the release of NO by Greiss reaction. RA rat models were constructed and the primary cells were classified into the control, negative control (NC), miR-146a mimic, miR-146a inhibitor, Tak-242, mimic + LPS, and TLR4 groups. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and intercellular adhesion molecular-1 (ICAM-1). The results showed that miR-146a levels were lower in RA-FLSs than control fibroblasts. miR-146a mimic and Tak-242 decreased RA-FLS proliferation and increased RA-FLS apoptosis, while miR-146a inhibitor had an opposite trend. miR-146a mimic and Tak-242 also decreased expression of TLR4, NF-kappaB, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, COX-2, MMP-3, Seprase, and iNOS, as well as reduced NO level in RA-FLSs while miR-146a inhibitor and TLR4 increased them. TLR4 and NF-kappaB levels and the positive rates of PCNA and ICAM-1 expressions were lower in RA-FLSs from RA rats given miR-146a mimic from control or miR-146a inhibitor-treated rats. These results suggest that miR-146a inhibits the proliferation and inflammatory response of RA-FLSs by down-regulating TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway.

Liu, Y., W. Liu, et al. (2011). "MiR-17 modulates osteogenic differentiation through a coherent feed-forward loop in mesenchymal stem cells isolated from periodontal ligaments of patients with periodontitis." Stem Cells 29(11): 1804-1816. Chronic inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis, are the most common causes of bone tissue destruction. Recently, human periodontal ligament tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (PDLSCs), a population of multipotent stem cells, have been used to reconstruct tissues destroyed by chronic inflammation. However, the impact of the local inflammatory microenvironment on tissue-specific stem cells and the mechanisms controlling the effects of the local inflammatory environment remain poorly understood. In this study, we found that the multidifferentiation potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) isolated from periodontitis-affected periodontal ligament tissue (P-PDLSCs) was significantly lower than that of MSCs isolated from healthy human periodontal ligament tissue (H-PDLSCs). Inflammation in the microenvironment resulted in an inhibition of miR-17 levels, and a perturbation in the expression of miR-17 partly reversed the differentiation potential of PDLSCs in this microenvironment. Furthermore, inflammation in the microenvironment promoted the expression of Smad ubiquitin regulatory factor one (Smurf1), an important negative regulator of MSC osteogenic differentiation. Western blotting and 3' untranslated regions (3'-UTR) reporter assays confirmed that Smurf1 is a direct target of miR-17 in PDLSCs. Our data demonstrate that excessive inflammatory cytokine levels, miR-17, and Smurf1 were all involved in a coherent feed-forward loop. In this circuit, inflammatory cytokines led to direct activation of Smurf1 and downregulation of miR-17, thereby increasing degradation of Smurf1-mediated osteoblast-specific factors. The elucidation of the molecular mechanisms governing MSC osteogenic differentiation in a chronic inflammatory microenvironment could provide us with a better knowledge of chronic inflammatory disorder and improve stem cell-mediated inflammatory bone disease therapy.. Chronic inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis, are the most common causes of bone tissue destruction. Recently, human periodontal ligament tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (PDLSCs), a population of multipotent stem cells, have been used to reconstruct tissues destroyed by chronic inflammation. However, the impact of the local inflammatory microenvironment on tissue-specific stem cells and the mechanisms controlling the effects of the local inflammatory environment remain poorly understood. In this study, we found that the multidifferentiation potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) isolated from periodontitis-affected periodontal ligament tissue (P-PDLSCs) was significantly lower than that of MSCs isolated from healthy human periodontal ligament tissue (H-PDLSCs). Inflammation in the microenvironment resulted in an inhibition of miR-17 levels, and a perturbation in the expression of miR-17 partly reversed the differentiation potential of PDLSCs in this microenvironment. Furthermore, inflammation in the microenvironment promoted the expression of Smad ubiquitin regulatory factor one (Smurf1), an important negative regulator of MSC osteogenic differentiation. Western blotting and 3' untranslated regions (3'-UTR) reporter assays confirmed that Smurf1 is a direct target of miR-17 in PDLSCs. Our data demonstrate that excessive inflammatory cytokine levels, miR-17, and Smurf1 were all involved in a coherent feed-forward loop. In this circuit, inflammatory cytokines led to direct activation of Smurf1 and downregulation of miR-17, thereby increasing degradation of Smurf1-mediated osteoblast-specific factors. The elucidation of the molecular mechanisms governing MSC osteogenic differentiation in a chronic inflammatory microenvironment could provide us with a better knowledge of chronic inflammatory disorder and improve stem cell-mediated inflammatory bone disease therapy.

Liu, Y., K. Qian, et al. (2018). "Roles of microRNA-539 and osteopontin in rheumatoid arthritis." Exp Ther Med 15(3): 2681-2687. The present study aimed to investigate the role and mechanism of microRNA-539 (miR-539) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). A total of 68 RA patients and 46 osteoarthritis patients were enrolled into the current study. Peripheral blood and joint fluid were collected prior to treatment. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed to detect osteopontin (OPN) mRNA and miR-539 expression levels, while ELISA and western blot analysis were applied to detect OPN protein expression. In addition, bioinformatics analysis predicted that miR-539 directly targeted OPN, while dual-luciferase assay was used to validate this finding. Furthermore, agomiR-539 transfection and OPN knockdown by siRNA were conducted in MH7A cells, and MTT assay was used to detect MH7A cell proliferation. The results indicated that OPN was significantly increased in the blood and joint fluid of RA patients, while miR-539 expression was significantly decreased in the two types of specimens (P<0.05). Subsequent to silencing OPN by siRNA, the proliferation of MH7A cells was decreased (P<0.05). Following upregulation of miR-539, OPN expression was significantly decreased and cell proliferation was inhibited. Dual-luciferase assay revealed that miR-539 regulated OPN expression through complementary binding to 3'-untranslated region. OPN was also significantly increased in the blood and joint fluid of RA patients, which may be associated with the downregulation of miR-539. Thus, miR-539 may promote the development and progression of RA through regulating OPN.. The present study aimed to investigate the role and mechanism of microRNA-539 (miR-539) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). A total of 68 RA patients and 46 osteoarthritis patients were enrolled into the current study. Peripheral blood and joint fluid were collected prior to treatment. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed to detect osteopontin (OPN) mRNA and miR-539 expression levels, while ELISA and western blot analysis were applied to detect OPN protein expression. In addition, bioinformatics analysis predicted that miR-539 directly targeted OPN, while dual-luciferase assay was used to validate this finding. Furthermore, agomiR-539 transfection and OPN knockdown by siRNA were conducted in MH7A cells, and MTT assay was used to detect MH7A cell proliferation. The results indicated that OPN was significantly increased in the blood and joint fluid of RA patients, while miR-539 expression was significantly decreased in the two types of specimens (P<0.05). Subsequent to silencing OPN by siRNA, the proliferation of MH7A cells was decreased (P<0.05). Following upregulation of miR-539, OPN expression was significantly decreased and cell proliferation was inhibited. Dual-luciferase assay revealed that miR-539 regulated OPN expression through complementary binding to 3'-untranslated region. OPN was also significantly increased in the blood and joint fluid of RA patients, which may be associated with the downregulation of miR-539. Thus, miR-539 may promote the development and progression of RA through regulating OPN.

Lochhead, R. B., Y. Ma, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA-146a provides feedback regulation of lyme arthritis but not carditis during infection with Borrelia burgdorferi." PLoS Pathog 10(6): e1004212. MicroRNAs have been shown to be important regulators of inflammatory and immune responses and are implicated in several immune disorders including systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, but their role in Lyme borreliosis remains unknown. We performed a microarray screen for expression of miRNAs in joint tissue from three mouse strains infected with Borrelia burgdorferi. This screen identified upregulation of miR-146a, a key negative regulator of NF-kappaB signaling, in all three strains, suggesting it plays an important role in the in vivo response to B. burgdorferi. Infection of B6 miR-146a-/- mice with B. burgdorferi revealed a critical nonredundant role of miR-146a in modulating Lyme arthritis without compromising host immune response or heart inflammation. The impact of miR-146a was specifically localized to the joint, and did not impact lesion development or inflammation in the heart. Furthermore, B6 miR-146a-/- mice had elevated levels of NF-kappaB-regulated products in joint tissue and serum late in infection. Flow cytometry analysis of various lineages isolated from infected joint tissue of mice showed that myeloid cell infiltration was significantly greater in B6 miR-146a-/- mice, compared to B6, during B. burgdorferi infection. Using bone marrow-derived macrophages, we found that TRAF6, a known target of miR-146a involved in NF-kappaB activation, was dysregulated in resting and B. burgdorferi-stimulated B6 miR-146a-/- macrophages, and corresponded to elevated IL-1beta, IL-6 and CXCL1 production. This dysregulated protein production was also observed in macrophages treated with IL-10 prior to B. burgdorferi stimulation. Peritoneal macrophages from B6 miR-146a-/- mice also showed enhanced phagocytosis of B. burgdorferi. Together, these data show that miR-146a-mediated regulation of TRAF6 and NF-kappaB, and downstream targets such as IL-1beta, IL-6 and CXCL1, are critical for modulation of Lyme arthritis during chronic infection with B. burgdorferi.. MicroRNAs have been shown to be important regulators of inflammatory and immune responses and are implicated in several immune disorders including systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, but their role in Lyme borreliosis remains unknown. We performed a microarray screen for expression of miRNAs in joint tissue from three mouse strains infected with Borrelia burgdorferi. This screen identified upregulation of miR-146a, a key negative regulator of NF-kappaB signaling, in all three strains, suggesting it plays an important role in the in vivo response to B. burgdorferi. Infection of B6 miR-146a-/- mice with B. burgdorferi revealed a critical nonredundant role of miR-146a in modulating Lyme arthritis without compromising host immune response or heart inflammation. The impact of miR-146a was specifically localized to the joint, and did not impact lesion development or inflammation in the heart. Furthermore, B6 miR-146a-/- mice had elevated levels of NF-kappaB-regulated products in joint tissue and serum late in infection. Flow cytometry analysis of various lineages isolated from infected joint tissue of mice showed that myeloid cell infiltration was significantly greater in B6 miR-146a-/- mice, compared to B6, during B. burgdorferi infection. Using bone marrow-derived macrophages, we found that TRAF6, a known target of miR-146a involved in NF-kappaB activation, was dysregulated in resting and B. burgdorferi-stimulated B6 miR-146a-/- macrophages, and corresponded to elevated IL-1beta, IL-6 and CXCL1 production. This dysregulated protein production was also observed in macrophages treated with IL-10 prior to B. burgdorferi stimulation. Peritoneal macrophages from B6 miR-146a-/- mice also showed enhanced phagocytosis of B. burgdorferi. Together, these data show that miR-146a-mediated regulation of TRAF6 and NF-kappaB, and downstream targets such as IL-1beta, IL-6 and CXCL1, are critical for modulation of Lyme arthritis during chronic infection with B. burgdorferi.

Lochhead, R. B., K. Strle, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA Expression Shows Inflammatory Dysregulation and Tumor-Like Proliferative Responses in Joints of Patients With Postinfectious Lyme Arthritis." Arthritis Rheumatol 69(5): 1100-1110. OBJECTIVE: Lyme arthritis (LA) is caused by infection with Borrelia burgdorferi and usually resolves following spirochetal killing with antibiotics. However, in some patients, arthritis persists after antibiotic therapy. To provide insights into underlying pathogenic processes associated with antibiotic-refractory LA (postinfectious LA), we analyzed differences in microRNA (miRNA) expression between LA patients with active infection and those with postinfectious LA. METHODS: MicroRNA expression was assayed in synovial fluid (SF) from LA patients before and after oral and intravenous antibiotic therapy, and in synovial tissue obtained months after antibiotic therapy from patients with postinfectious LA. SF and tissue from patients with other forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis, were used for comparison. RESULTS: SF from LA patients during active infection had marked elevations of white blood cells, particularly polymorphonuclear leukocytes, accompanied by elevated levels of microRNA-223 (miR-223). In contrast, SF from postantibiotic LA patients contained greater percentages of lymphocytes and mononuclear cells. SF from postantibiotic LA patients also exhibited marked inflammatory (miR-146a, miR-155), wound repair (miR-142), and proliferative (miR-17-92) miRNA signatures, and higher levels of these miRNAs correlated with longer arthritis duration. Levels of miR-146a, miR-155, miR-142, miR-223, and miR-17-92 were also elevated in synovial tissue in late postinfectious LA, and levels of let-7a were reduced, similar to RA. CONCLUSION: During active infection, miRNA expression in SF reflected an immune response associated with bacterial killing, while in postinfectious LA, miRNA expression in SF and synovial tissue reflected chronic inflammation, synovial proliferation, and breakdown of wound repair processes, showing that the nature of the arthritis was altered after spirochetal killing.. OBJECTIVE: Lyme arthritis (LA) is caused by infection with Borrelia burgdorferi and usually resolves following spirochetal killing with antibiotics. However, in some patients, arthritis persists after antibiotic therapy. To provide insights into underlying pathogenic processes associated with antibiotic-refractory LA (postinfectious LA), we analyzed differences in microRNA (miRNA) expression between LA patients with active infection and those with postinfectious LA. METHODS: MicroRNA expression was assayed in synovial fluid (SF) from LA patients before and after oral and intravenous antibiotic therapy, and in synovial tissue obtained months after antibiotic therapy from patients with postinfectious LA. SF and tissue from patients with other forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis, were used for comparison. RESULTS: SF from LA patients during active infection had marked elevations of white blood cells, particularly polymorphonuclear leukocytes, accompanied by elevated levels of microRNA-223 (miR-223). In contrast, SF from postantibiotic LA patients contained greater percentages of lymphocytes and mononuclear cells. SF from postantibiotic LA patients also exhibited marked inflammatory (miR-146a, miR-155), wound repair (miR-142), and proliferative (miR-17-92) miRNA signatures, and higher levels of these miRNAs correlated with longer arthritis duration. Levels of miR-146a, miR-155, miR-142, miR-223, and miR-17-92 were also elevated in synovial tissue in late postinfectious LA, and levels of let-7a were reduced, similar to RA. CONCLUSION: During active infection, miRNA expression in SF reflected an immune response associated with bacterial killing, while in postinfectious LA, miRNA expression in SF and synovial tissue reflected chronic inflammation, synovial proliferation, and breakdown of wound repair processes, showing that the nature of the arthritis was altered after spirochetal killing.

Long, L., P. Yu, et al. (2013). "Upregulated microRNA-155 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and fibroblast-like synoviocytes in rheumatoid arthritis." Clin Dev Immunol 2013: 296139. OBJECTIVE: This study was to screen for the miRNAs differently expressed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of RA, to further identify the expression of miR-155 in RA PBMC and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), and to evaluate the function of miR-155 in RA-FLS. METHODS: Microarray was used to screen for differentially expressed miRNAs in RA PBMC. miR-155 expression in PBMC and FLS of RA were identified by real-time PCR. Enforced overexpression and downexpression of miR-155 were used to investigate the function of miR-155 in RA-FLS. Expression of IKBKE which was previously identified as the actual target of miR-155 was examined by Western blot and real-time PCR in RA-FLS. RESULTS: miR-155 levels were increased in both PBMC and FLS of RA and could be induced by TNF- alpha . Upregulation of miR-155 decreased MMP-3 levels and suppressed proliferation and invasion of RA-FLS. Inverse relationship between the expressions of miR-155 and the MMPs production-related protein IKBKE was found. CONCLUSION: An inflammatory milieu may alter miRNA expression profiles in rheumatoid arthritis. miR-155 is upregulated in RA-FLS, and it may be a protective factor against the inflammatory effect in part by attenuating expression of IKBKE.. OBJECTIVE: This study was to screen for the miRNAs differently expressed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of RA, to further identify the expression of miR-155 in RA PBMC and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), and to evaluate the function of miR-155 in RA-FLS. METHODS: Microarray was used to screen for differentially expressed miRNAs in RA PBMC. miR-155 expression in PBMC and FLS of RA were identified by real-time PCR. Enforced overexpression and downexpression of miR-155 were used to investigate the function of miR-155 in RA-FLS. Expression of IKBKE which was previously identified as the actual target of miR-155 was examined by Western blot and real-time PCR in RA-FLS. RESULTS: miR-155 levels were increased in both PBMC and FLS of RA and could be induced by TNF- alpha . Upregulation of miR-155 decreased MMP-3 levels and suppressed proliferation and invasion of RA-FLS. Inverse relationship between the expressions of miR-155 and the MMPs production-related protein IKBKE was found. CONCLUSION: An inflammatory milieu may alter miRNA expression profiles in rheumatoid arthritis. miR-155 is upregulated in RA-FLS, and it may be a protective factor against the inflammatory effect in part by attenuating expression of IKBKE.

Lorenz, H. M. (2010). "[Biomarkers collections: the future or a waste of resources?]." Z Rheumatol 69(10): 860-862. Disease biomarkers would aim at a more specific definition of diagnosis or subtype of a certain disease, as well as prognosis definition, including efficacy and side effects of certain therapeutics. Biomarkers could lead to a prognostically optimized definition of remission in the individual patient and thus to a more objective definition of therapeutic efficacy. Is this possible and does it make sense? Or would an extensive analysis of biomarkers to date lead to a costly overestimation of as yet not well established biologic parameters? Although we are currently unable to answer this question, many colleagues argue in favour of more in depth research for a better evaluation of biomarkers in many diseases. This could save money if we were able to predict the efficacy of expensive drugs such as immunobiologics. Biomarkers comprise cytometric information, data on protein expression and secretion, mRNA, microRNA or DNA, including epigenetic variants. Although much of these data already exist in the scientific literature, it is associated with problems in terms of feasibility (for cytometry and RNA analysis only on-site analysis is possible, while for DNA analysis central testing is also possible), costs and reproducibility (ethnic variability!). To date all biomarkers have only limited value in terms of the above-mentioned aims. The present review compiles "PROs and CONs" in a subjective way in order to provoke a discussion on the meaningfulness of biomarkers, while at the same time supporting and encouraging further research in this field.. Disease biomarkers would aim at a more specific definition of diagnosis or subtype of a certain disease, as well as prognosis definition, including efficacy and side effects of certain therapeutics. Biomarkers could lead to a prognostically optimized definition of remission in the individual patient and thus to a more objective definition of therapeutic efficacy. Is this possible and does it make sense? Or would an extensive analysis of biomarkers to date lead to a costly overestimation of as yet not well established biologic parameters? Although we are currently unable to answer this question, many colleagues argue in favour of more in depth research for a better evaluation of biomarkers in many diseases. This could save money if we were able to predict the efficacy of expensive drugs such as immunobiologics. Biomarkers comprise cytometric information, data on protein expression and secretion, mRNA, microRNA or DNA, including epigenetic variants. Although much of these data already exist in the scientific literature, it is associated with problems in terms of feasibility (for cytometry and RNA analysis only on-site analysis is possible, while for DNA analysis central testing is also possible), costs and reproducibility (ethnic variability!). To date all biomarkers have only limited value in terms of the above-mentioned aims. The present review compiles "PROs and CONs" in a subjective way in order to provoke a discussion on the meaningfulness of biomarkers, while at the same time supporting and encouraging further research in this field.

Lu, J., M. Yan, et al. (2013). "Altered expression of miR-146a in myasthenia gravis." Neurosci Lett 555: 85-90. The purpose of this study was to analyze the expression of miR-146a in PBMCs obtained from patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and healthy controls and to investigate the effect of the inhibition of miR-146a on the activation of AchR specific B cells obtained from mice. The expression of miR-146a levels in PBMCs obtained from patients with MG and healthy controls were determined by qRT-PCR. MiR-146a's complementary fragment, AntagomiR-146a, was synthesized as inhibitor, and the nonfunctional fragment, which has similar construction to AntagomiR-146a, was synthesized as negative control inhibitor. The expression of miR-146a, CD40, CD80 and CD86 on AchR specific B cells were analyzed by qRT-PCR and flow cytometry. Western blotting was used to detect the expression of TLR4, NF-kappaB and Bcl-2 .The expression of miRNA-146a in PBMCs obtained from patients with MG was significantly upregulated compared to healthy controls (P<0.01). Transfection with miR-146a inhibitor dramatically decreased expression of miR-146a, CD40, CD80, TLR4 and NF-kappaB on AchR specific B cells compared to mock transfected cells. We conclude that abnormal expression/regulation of miR-146a may play an important role in the regulation of AchR specific B cells and contribute to the pathogenesis of MG.. The purpose of this study was to analyze the expression of miR-146a in PBMCs obtained from patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and healthy controls and to investigate the effect of the inhibition of miR-146a on the activation of AchR specific B cells obtained from mice. The expression of miR-146a levels in PBMCs obtained from patients with MG and healthy controls were determined by qRT-PCR. MiR-146a's complementary fragment, AntagomiR-146a, was synthesized as inhibitor, and the nonfunctional fragment, which has similar construction to AntagomiR-146a, was synthesized as negative control inhibitor. The expression of miR-146a, CD40, CD80 and CD86 on AchR specific B cells were analyzed by qRT-PCR and flow cytometry. Western blotting was used to detect the expression of TLR4, NF-kappaB and Bcl-2 .The expression of miRNA-146a in PBMCs obtained from patients with MG was significantly upregulated compared to healthy controls (P<0.01). Transfection with miR-146a inhibitor dramatically decreased expression of miR-146a, CD40, CD80, TLR4 and NF-kappaB on AchR specific B cells compared to mock transfected cells. We conclude that abnormal expression/regulation of miR-146a may play an important role in the regulation of AchR specific B cells and contribute to the pathogenesis of MG.

Lu, L., Y. Tu, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA-499 rs3746444 polymorphism and autoimmune diseases risk: a meta-analysis." Mol Diagn Ther 18(2): 237-242. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miR)-499 rs3746444 polymorphisms may participate in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, but the results remain conflicting. We further investigated this association using a meta-analysis. METHODS: We conducted a retrieval of studies and obtained the eligible studies if they met inclusion criteria. Two researchers independently extracted the data from original articles. The genotype frequencies were analysed using Stata software. RESULTS: We finally archived six eligible studies that included 1,118 cases and 1,673 controls. After pooling the data, the results indicated that homozygote TT had an overall association with autoimmune diseases (TC + CC vs. TT: odds ratio [OR] 1.31, 95% CI 1.11-1.55, p = 0.001). The allele C, genotype TC and CC, may be associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) risks in Mediterranean populations (C vs. T: OR 2. 00, 95% CI 1.37-2.91, p < 0.001; TC vs. CC + TT: OR 1.76, 95% CI 1.27-2.44; p = 0.001; CC vs. TC + TT: OR 2.31, 95% CI 1.24-4.27, p = 0.008; CC vs. TT: OR 2.92, 95% CI 1.59-5.37, p = 0.001; TC vs. TT: OR 1.98, 95% CI 1.42-2.77). The genotype TT may decrease the risk of RA in Mediterranean populations (TC + CC vs. TT: OR 2.15, 95% CI 1.57-2.94, p < 0.001) rather than in East Asians. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that miR-499 polymorphisms were associated with a significantly increased risk of RA in Mediterranean populations.. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miR)-499 rs3746444 polymorphisms may participate in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, but the results remain conflicting. We further investigated this association using a meta-analysis. METHODS: We conducted a retrieval of studies and obtained the eligible studies if they met inclusion criteria. Two researchers independently extracted the data from original articles. The genotype frequencies were analysed using Stata software. RESULTS: We finally archived six eligible studies that included 1,118 cases and 1,673 controls. After pooling the data, the results indicated that homozygote TT had an overall association with autoimmune diseases (TC + CC vs. TT: odds ratio [OR] 1.31, 95% CI 1.11-1.55, p = 0.001). The allele C, genotype TC and CC, may be associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) risks in Mediterranean populations (C vs. T: OR 2. 00, 95% CI 1.37-2.91, p < 0.001; TC vs. CC + TT: OR 1.76, 95% CI 1.27-2.44; p = 0.001; CC vs. TC + TT: OR 2.31, 95% CI 1.24-4.27, p = 0.008; CC vs. TT: OR 2.92, 95% CI 1.59-5.37, p = 0.001; TC vs. TT: OR 1.98, 95% CI 1.42-2.77). The genotype TT may decrease the risk of RA in Mediterranean populations (TC + CC vs. TT: OR 2.15, 95% CI 1.57-2.94, p < 0.001) rather than in East Asians. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that miR-499 polymorphisms were associated with a significantly increased risk of RA in Mediterranean populations.

Lu, M. C., C. L. Yu, et al. (2014). "Increased miR-223 expression in T cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis leads to decreased insulin-like growth factor-1-mediated interleukin-10 production." Clin Exp Immunol 177(3): 641-651. We hypothesized that the aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) T cells was involved in the pathogenesis of RA. The expression profile of 270 human miRNAs in T cells from the first five RA patients and five controls were analysed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Twelve miRNAs exhibited potentially aberrant expression in RA T cells compared to normal T cells. After validation with another 22 RA patients and 19 controls, miR-223 and miR-34b were over-expressed in RA T cells. The expression levels of miR-223 were correlated positively with the titre of rheumatoid factor (RF) in RA patients. Transfection of Jurkat cells with miR-223 mimic suppressed insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) and transfection with miR-34b mimic suppressed cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) protein expression by Western blotting. The protein expression of IGF-1R but not CREB was decreased in RA T cells. The addition of recombinant IGF-1-stimulated interleukin (IL)-10 production by activated normal T cells, but not RA T cells. The transfection of miR-223 mimic impaired IGF-1-mediated IL-10 production in activated normal T cells. The expression levels of SCD5, targeted by miR-34b, were decreased in RA T cells after microarray analysis. In conclusion, both miR-223 and miR-34b were over-expressed in RA T cells, but only the miR-223 expression levels were correlated positively with RF titre in RA patients. Functionally, the increased miR-223 expression could impair the IGF-1-mediated IL-10 production in activated RA T cells in vivo, which might contribute to the imbalance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines.. We hypothesized that the aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) T cells was involved in the pathogenesis of RA. The expression profile of 270 human miRNAs in T cells from the first five RA patients and five controls were analysed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Twelve miRNAs exhibited potentially aberrant expression in RA T cells compared to normal T cells. After validation with another 22 RA patients and 19 controls, miR-223 and miR-34b were over-expressed in RA T cells. The expression levels of miR-223 were correlated positively with the titre of rheumatoid factor (RF) in RA patients. Transfection of Jurkat cells with miR-223 mimic suppressed insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) and transfection with miR-34b mimic suppressed cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) protein expression by Western blotting. The protein expression of IGF-1R but not CREB was decreased in RA T cells. The addition of recombinant IGF-1-stimulated interleukin (IL)-10 production by activated normal T cells, but not RA T cells. The transfection of miR-223 mimic impaired IGF-1-mediated IL-10 production in activated normal T cells. The expression levels of SCD5, targeted by miR-34b, were decreased in RA T cells after microarray analysis. In conclusion, both miR-223 and miR-34b were over-expressed in RA T cells, but only the miR-223 expression levels were correlated positively with RF titre in RA patients. Functionally, the increased miR-223 expression could impair the IGF-1-mediated IL-10 production in activated RA T cells in vivo, which might contribute to the imbalance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines.

Lv, B., Z. Liu, et al. (2014). "MiR-29a promotes intestinal epithelial apoptosis in ulcerative colitis by down-regulating Mcl-1." Int J Clin Exp Pathol 7(12): 8542-8552. OBJECTIVE: While it's widely accepted that the etiology of ulcerative colitis (UC) involves both genetic and environmental factors, the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis is still poorly understood. Intestinal epithelial apoptosis is one of the most common histopathological changes of UC and the expression of a number of apoptosis genes may contribute to the progression of UC. MicroRNAs have recently emerged as powerful regulators of diverse cellular processes and have been shown to be involved in many immune-mediated disorders such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and asthma. A unique microRNA expression profile has been identified in UC, suggesting that, microRNAs play an important role in the pathogenesis of UC. We investigated the role of miR-29a in intestinal epithelial apoptosis in UC. METHODS: The expression of miR-29a and Mcl-1, an anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family member, was evaluated in both UC patients and UC mice model induced by dextran sodium sulfate (DSS). The apoptosis rate of intestinal epithelial cells was also evaluated. RESULTS: In UC patients and DSS-induced UC in mice, the expression of miR-29a and Mcl-1, were up-regulated and down-regulated, respectively. We identified a miR-29a binding site (7 nucleotides) on the 3'UTR of mcl-1 and mutation in this binding site on the 3'UTR of mcl-1 led to mis-match between miR-29a and mcl-1. Knockout of Mcl-1 caused apoptosis of the colonic epithelial HT29 cells. In addition, miR-29a regulated intestinal epithelial apoptosis by down-regulating the expression of Mcl-1. CONCLUSION: miR-29a is involved in the pathogenesis of UC by regulating intestinal epithelial apoptosis via Mcl-1.. OBJECTIVE: While it's widely accepted that the etiology of ulcerative colitis (UC) involves both genetic and environmental factors, the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis is still poorly understood. Intestinal epithelial apoptosis is one of the most common histopathological changes of UC and the expression of a number of apoptosis genes may contribute to the progression of UC. MicroRNAs have recently emerged as powerful regulators of diverse cellular processes and have been shown to be involved in many immune-mediated disorders such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and asthma. A unique microRNA expression profile has been identified in UC, suggesting that, microRNAs play an important role in the pathogenesis of UC. We investigated the role of miR-29a in intestinal epithelial apoptosis in UC. METHODS: The expression of miR-29a and Mcl-1, an anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family member, was evaluated in both UC patients and UC mice model induced by dextran sodium sulfate (DSS). The apoptosis rate of intestinal epithelial cells was also evaluated. RESULTS: In UC patients and DSS-induced UC in mice, the expression of miR-29a and Mcl-1, were up-regulated and down-regulated, respectively. We identified a miR-29a binding site (7 nucleotides) on the 3'UTR of mcl-1 and mutation in this binding site on the 3'UTR of mcl-1 led to mis-match between miR-29a and mcl-1. Knockout of Mcl-1 caused apoptosis of the colonic epithelial HT29 cells. In addition, miR-29a regulated intestinal epithelial apoptosis by down-regulating the expression of Mcl-1. CONCLUSION: miR-29a is involved in the pathogenesis of UC by regulating intestinal epithelial apoptosis via Mcl-1.

Maciejewska Rodrigues, H., A. Jungel, et al. (2009). "Innate immunity, epigenetics and autoimmunity in rheumatoid arthritis." Mol Immunol 47(1): 12-18. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by the progressive and irreversible destruction of joints. RA remains an incurable condition, although a new class of drugs, biologicals, have made a major breakthrough in targeting and/or eliminating the immune cells, including T cells, B cells and monocytes/macrophages from the joints. That we cannot (yet?) cure the disease is most likely due to the lack of therapeutic targeting the endogenously activated RA synovial fibroblasts (RASF). Most interestingly, RASF express Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 1-6 rendering them prone to activation by exogenous and endogenous TLR ligands and resulting in the production of numerous powerful chemokines and cytokines. These factors are responsible for the repopulation of immune cells in the joints after ceasing cell depleting therapies. To characterize the molecular mechanisms of synovial activation, a new approach studying the epigenetic characteristics of RASF has been recently undertaken. Thereby, the pattern of histone acetylation, DNA methylation and gene expression regulating microRNA are being explored. Since auto-antibodies have the most predictive and diagnostic value for RA, it is challenging to study more comprehensively the contribution of auto-antibodies to the disease. A new screening technique, serological analysis of recombinant human cDNA expression library (SEREX), adapted from cancer research allowed for the identification of novel auto-antibodies in RA, including anti-serpin E2 auto-antibodies. The serpin E2 auto-antibodies were found to inhibit the activity of serpin E2 and have potentially a functional role in the disease. The recent findings in the field of innate immunity, epigenetics and autoimmunity related to the pathogenesis of RA are in the scope of this review.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by the progressive and irreversible destruction of joints. RA remains an incurable condition, although a new class of drugs, biologicals, have made a major breakthrough in targeting and/or eliminating the immune cells, including T cells, B cells and monocytes/macrophages from the joints. That we cannot (yet?) cure the disease is most likely due to the lack of therapeutic targeting the endogenously activated RA synovial fibroblasts (RASF). Most interestingly, RASF express Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 1-6 rendering them prone to activation by exogenous and endogenous TLR ligands and resulting in the production of numerous powerful chemokines and cytokines. These factors are responsible for the repopulation of immune cells in the joints after ceasing cell depleting therapies. To characterize the molecular mechanisms of synovial activation, a new approach studying the epigenetic characteristics of RASF has been recently undertaken. Thereby, the pattern of histone acetylation, DNA methylation and gene expression regulating microRNA are being explored. Since auto-antibodies have the most predictive and diagnostic value for RA, it is challenging to study more comprehensively the contribution of auto-antibodies to the disease. A new screening technique, serological analysis of recombinant human cDNA expression library (SEREX), adapted from cancer research allowed for the identification of novel auto-antibodies in RA, including anti-serpin E2 auto-antibodies. The serpin E2 auto-antibodies were found to inhibit the activity of serpin E2 and have potentially a functional role in the disease. The recent findings in the field of innate immunity, epigenetics and autoimmunity related to the pathogenesis of RA are in the scope of this review.

Madhyastha, R., H. Madhyastha, et al. (2018). "The pivotal role of microRNA-21 in osteoclastogenesis inhibition by anthracycline glycoside aloin." J Nat MedOsteopenic disorders such as osteoporosis and rheumatoid arthritis are characterized by excessive bone resorption by osteoclasts relative to bone formation by osteoblasts. MicroRNAs are emerging as key players in bone remodeling, modulating the functions of both osteoblasts and osteoclasts. Among them, miR-21 is highly expressed in osteoclast precursors and is known to regulate genesis, differentiation, and apoptosis of osteoclasts. The pro-osteoclastogenic nature of miR-21 makes it a potential candidate as a therapeutic target to treat bone disorders. We had previously demonstrated that anthroglycoside aloin derived from Aloe vera was effective in promoting osteoblastogenesis and inhibiting osteoclastogenesis. The present study investigated the role of miR-21 in aloin's inhibitory effect on osteoclast differentiation. Aloin effectively suppressed receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B (NFkB) ligand (RankL)-induced miR-21 expression via repression of NFkB activation. MiR-21 suppression resulted in upregulation of osteoclast suppressor programmed cell death protein 4 (PDCD4), and downregulation of osteoclast marker cathepsin K. Knockdown or gain-of-function studies revealed that miR-21 was pivotal to aloin's inhibitory effect on osteoclastogenesis. This study also highlights the dynamic potential of aloin as a therapeutic agent to treat osteopenic disorders.. Osteopenic disorders such as osteoporosis and rheumatoid arthritis are characterized by excessive bone resorption by osteoclasts relative to bone formation by osteoblasts. MicroRNAs are emerging as key players in bone remodeling, modulating the functions of both osteoblasts and osteoclasts. Among them, miR-21 is highly expressed in osteoclast precursors and is known to regulate genesis, differentiation, and apoptosis of osteoclasts. The pro-osteoclastogenic nature of miR-21 makes it a potential candidate as a therapeutic target to treat bone disorders. We had previously demonstrated that anthroglycoside aloin derived from Aloe vera was effective in promoting osteoblastogenesis and inhibiting osteoclastogenesis. The present study investigated the role of miR-21 in aloin's inhibitory effect on osteoclast differentiation. Aloin effectively suppressed receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B (NFkB) ligand (RankL)-induced miR-21 expression via repression of NFkB activation. MiR-21 suppression resulted in upregulation of osteoclast suppressor programmed cell death protein 4 (PDCD4), and downregulation of osteoclast marker cathepsin K. Knockdown or gain-of-function studies revealed that miR-21 was pivotal to aloin's inhibitory effect on osteoclastogenesis. This study also highlights the dynamic potential of aloin as a therapeutic agent to treat osteopenic disorders.

Maeda, Y., N. H. Farina, et al. (2017). "Synovium-Derived MicroRNAs Regulate Bone Pathways in Rheumatoid Arthritis." J Bone Miner Res 32(3): 461-472. Articular bone erosion in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is mediated by the interaction between inflammation and pathways regulating bone metabolism. Inflammation promotes osteoclastogenesis and also inhibits osteoblast function, further contributing to the persistence of erosions. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of skeletal remodeling and play a role in RA pathogenesis. We therefore determined the expression of miRNAs in inflamed synovial tissue and the role they play in pathways regulating osteoblast and osteoclast function. Using the serum transfer mouse model of RA in C57BL/6 mice, we performed Fluidigm high-throughput qPCR-based screening of miRNAs from nonarthritic and arthritic mice. Global gene expression profiling was also performed on Affymetrix microarrays from these same synovial samples. miRNA and mRNA expression profiles were subjected to comparative bioinformatics. A total of 536 upregulated genes and 417 downregulated genes were identified that are predicted targets of miRNAs with reciprocal expression changes. Gene ontology analysis of these genes revealed significant enrichment in skeletal pathways. Of the 22 miRNAs whose expression was most significantly changed (p < 0.01) between nonarthritic and arthritic mice, we identified their targets that both inhibit and promote bone formation. These miRNAs are predicted to target Wnt and BMP signaling pathway components. We validated miRNA array findings and demonstrated that secretion of miR-221-3p in exosomes was upregulated by synovial fibroblasts treated with the proinflammatory cytokine TNF. Overexpression of miR-221-3p suppressed calvarial osteoblast differentiation and mineralization in vitro. These results suggest that miRNAs derived from inflamed synovial tissues may regulate signaling pathways at erosion sites that affect bone loss and potentially also compensatory bone formation. (c) 2016 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.. Articular bone erosion in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is mediated by the interaction between inflammation and pathways regulating bone metabolism. Inflammation promotes osteoclastogenesis and also inhibits osteoblast function, further contributing to the persistence of erosions. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of skeletal remodeling and play a role in RA pathogenesis. We therefore determined the expression of miRNAs in inflamed synovial tissue and the role they play in pathways regulating osteoblast and osteoclast function. Using the serum transfer mouse model of RA in C57BL/6 mice, we performed Fluidigm high-throughput qPCR-based screening of miRNAs from nonarthritic and arthritic mice. Global gene expression profiling was also performed on Affymetrix microarrays from these same synovial samples. miRNA and mRNA expression profiles were subjected to comparative bioinformatics. A total of 536 upregulated genes and 417 downregulated genes were identified that are predicted targets of miRNAs with reciprocal expression changes. Gene ontology analysis of these genes revealed significant enrichment in skeletal pathways. Of the 22 miRNAs whose expression was most significantly changed (p < 0.01) between nonarthritic and arthritic mice, we identified their targets that both inhibit and promote bone formation. These miRNAs are predicted to target Wnt and BMP signaling pathway components. We validated miRNA array findings and demonstrated that secretion of miR-221-3p in exosomes was upregulated by synovial fibroblasts treated with the proinflammatory cytokine TNF. Overexpression of miR-221-3p suppressed calvarial osteoblast differentiation and mineralization in vitro. These results suggest that miRNAs derived from inflamed synovial tissues may regulate signaling pathways at erosion sites that affect bone loss and potentially also compensatory bone formation. (c) 2016 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

Mallinson, D. J., D. R. Dunbar, et al. (2017). "Identification of Potential Plasma microRNA Stratification Biomarkers for Response to Allogeneic Adipose-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Stem Cells Transl Med 6(4): 1202-1206. The ability to identify and stratify patients that will respond to specific therapies has been transformational in a number of disease areas, particularly oncology. It is anticipated that this will also be the case for cell-based therapies, particularly in complex and heterogeneous diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recently, clinical results with expanded allogenic adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (eASCs) have indicated clinical efficacy in highly refractory RA patients. In this study, we set out to determine if circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) could be identified as potential biomarkers associated with response to eASCs in these RA patients. The miRNA expression profiles of pre-treatment plasma samples from responder and nonresponder patients were determined using microarrays. Ten miRNAs were identified that were differentially expressed in the responder group as compared to the nonresponder group. To confirm the differential expression of these 10 miRNA biomarkers, they were further assayed by quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR). From this analysis, three miRNAs, miR-26b-5p, miR-487b-3p and miR-495-3p, were confirmed as being statistically significantly upregulated in the responder group as compared with the nonresponder group. Receiver operating characteristic analysis confirmed their diagnostic potential. These miRNAs could represent novel candidate stratification biomarkers associated with RA patient response to eASCs and are worthy of further clinical validation. Stem Cells Translational Medicine 2017;6:1202-1206.. The ability to identify and stratify patients that will respond to specific therapies has been transformational in a number of disease areas, particularly oncology. It is anticipated that this will also be the case for cell-based therapies, particularly in complex and heterogeneous diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recently, clinical results with expanded allogenic adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (eASCs) have indicated clinical efficacy in highly refractory RA patients. In this study, we set out to determine if circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) could be identified as potential biomarkers associated with response to eASCs in these RA patients. The miRNA expression profiles of pre-treatment plasma samples from responder and nonresponder patients were determined using microarrays. Ten miRNAs were identified that were differentially expressed in the responder group as compared to the nonresponder group. To confirm the differential expression of these 10 miRNA biomarkers, they were further assayed by quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR). From this analysis, three miRNAs, miR-26b-5p, miR-487b-3p and miR-495-3p, were confirmed as being statistically significantly upregulated in the responder group as compared with the nonresponder group. Receiver operating characteristic analysis confirmed their diagnostic potential. These miRNAs could represent novel candidate stratification biomarkers associated with RA patient response to eASCs and are worthy of further clinical validation. Stem Cells Translational Medicine 2017;6:1202-1206.

Mattiotti, A., S. Prakash, et al. (2018). "Follistatin-like 1 in development and human diseases." Cell Mol Life Sci 75(13): 2339-2354. Follistatin-like 1 (FSTL1) is a secreted glycoprotein displaying expression changes during development and disease, among which cardiovascular disease, cancer, and arthritis. The cardioprotective role of FSTL1 has been intensively studied over the last years, though its mechanism of action remains elusive. FSTL1 is involved in multiple signaling pathways and biological processes, including vascularization and regulation of the immune response, a feature that complicates its study. Binding to the DIP2A, TLR4 and BMP receptors have been shown, but other molecular partners probably exist. During cancer progression and rheumatoid arthritis, controversial data have been reported with respect to the proliferative, apoptotic, migratory, and inflammatory effects of FSTL1. This controversy might reside in the extensive post-transcriptional regulation of FSTL1. The FSTL1 primary transcript also encodes for a microRNA (miR-198) in primates and multiple microRNA-binding sites are present in the 3'UTR. The switch between expression of the FSTL1 protein and miR-198 is an important regulator of tumour metastasis and wound healing. The glycosylation state of FSTL1 is a determinant of biological activity, in cardiomyocytes the glycosylated form promoting proliferation and the non-glycosylated working anti-apoptotic. Moreover, the glycosylation state shows differences between species and tissues which might underlie the differences observed in in vitro studies. Finally, regulation at the level of protein secretion has been described.. Follistatin-like 1 (FSTL1) is a secreted glycoprotein displaying expression changes during development and disease, among which cardiovascular disease, cancer, and arthritis. The cardioprotective role of FSTL1 has been intensively studied over the last years, though its mechanism of action remains elusive. FSTL1 is involved in multiple signaling pathways and biological processes, including vascularization and regulation of the immune response, a feature that complicates its study. Binding to the DIP2A, TLR4 and BMP receptors have been shown, but other molecular partners probably exist. During cancer progression and rheumatoid arthritis, controversial data have been reported with respect to the proliferative, apoptotic, migratory, and inflammatory effects of FSTL1. This controversy might reside in the extensive post-transcriptional regulation of FSTL1. The FSTL1 primary transcript also encodes for a microRNA (miR-198) in primates and multiple microRNA-binding sites are present in the 3'UTR. The switch between expression of the FSTL1 protein and miR-198 is an important regulator of tumour metastasis and wound healing. The glycosylation state of FSTL1 is a determinant of biological activity, in cardiomyocytes the glycosylated form promoting proliferation and the non-glycosylated working anti-apoptotic. Moreover, the glycosylation state shows differences between species and tissues which might underlie the differences observed in in vitro studies. Finally, regulation at the level of protein secretion has been described.

Mi, S., J. Zhang, et al. (2013). "Circulating microRNAs as biomarkers for inflammatory diseases." Microrna 2(1): 63-71. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small, non-coding RNA molecules with gene regulatory functions, have emerged to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases. Current technological advances allow accurate, high throughput profiling of miRNA abundance in different tissues. More recently, extracellular, circulating miRNAs have begun to be demonstrated as highly stable, blood-based biomarkers for diseases. Understanding the interactions between circulating miRNAs and clinical phenotypes can enhance our knowledge of complex diseases and traits. On the other hand, given the advantages of utilizing blood-based biomarkers (e.g., convenience in collecting samples), circulating miRNAs as biomarkers may improve both disease diagnosis and management. Particularly, we reviewed recent progress in identifying circulating miRNAs as biomarkers for several common inflammatory diseases including asthma, inflammatory bowel disease, and rheumatoid arthritis. Current studies showed a promising future of using circulating miRNAs in the care of inflammatory diseases.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small, non-coding RNA molecules with gene regulatory functions, have emerged to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases. Current technological advances allow accurate, high throughput profiling of miRNA abundance in different tissues. More recently, extracellular, circulating miRNAs have begun to be demonstrated as highly stable, blood-based biomarkers for diseases. Understanding the interactions between circulating miRNAs and clinical phenotypes can enhance our knowledge of complex diseases and traits. On the other hand, given the advantages of utilizing blood-based biomarkers (e.g., convenience in collecting samples), circulating miRNAs as biomarkers may improve both disease diagnosis and management. Particularly, we reviewed recent progress in identifying circulating miRNAs as biomarkers for several common inflammatory diseases including asthma, inflammatory bowel disease, and rheumatoid arthritis. Current studies showed a promising future of using circulating miRNAs in the care of inflammatory diseases.

Miao, C. G., D. Qin, et al. (2015). "DNMT1 activates the canonical Wnt signaling in rheumatoid arthritis model rats via a crucial functional crosstalk between miR-152 and the DNMT1, MeCP2." Int Immunopharmacol 28(1): 344-353. In previous study, we identified that microRNA (miR)-152 expression was down-regulated in RA model rats, and overexpression of miR-152 inhibited the canonical Wnt signaling through the DNA methyltransferase (DNMT1) inhibition. However, the exact molecular mechanisms of DNMT1 were unclear. In this work, we investigate whether DNMT1 affects the pathogenesis of RA model rats and targets the miR-152 promoter. The effects of DNMT1 on the canonical Wnt signaling, the pathogenesis of RA model rats and the SFRP1 expression were detected by the real time qPCR, Western blotting, ELISA, MTT and viable cell number assay. The interaction between miR-152 and DNMT1, methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) was investigated by real time qPCR and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Our results revealed that increased DNMT1 activated the canonical Wnt signaling could not only by targeting SFRP4 may also by SFRP1 in RA model rats. Furthermore, treatment of DNMT1 inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azadC), or knockdown of DNMT1, or knockdown of MeCP2 led to increased miR-152 expression by reversion of its promoter hypermethylation, DNMT1 and MeCP2 binding to the CpG islands of miR-152 promoter. Interestingly, it is proved a synergistic inhibition effect of DNMT1 and MeCP2 in this process. Moreover, overexpression of miR-152 could inhibit DNMT1 expression and result in a decrease of DNMT1 and MeCP2 binding to miR-152 promoter, and inhibition of miR-152 expression would reverse it. These observations demonstrate a crucial functional crosstalk between miR-152 and the DNMT1, MeCP2 by a double-negative circuit involved in the pathogenesis of RA model rats.. In previous study, we identified that microRNA (miR)-152 expression was down-regulated in RA model rats, and overexpression of miR-152 inhibited the canonical Wnt signaling through the DNA methyltransferase (DNMT1) inhibition. However, the exact molecular mechanisms of DNMT1 were unclear. In this work, we investigate whether DNMT1 affects the pathogenesis of RA model rats and targets the miR-152 promoter. The effects of DNMT1 on the canonical Wnt signaling, the pathogenesis of RA model rats and the SFRP1 expression were detected by the real time qPCR, Western blotting, ELISA, MTT and viable cell number assay. The interaction between miR-152 and DNMT1, methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) was investigated by real time qPCR and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Our results revealed that increased DNMT1 activated the canonical Wnt signaling could not only by targeting SFRP4 may also by SFRP1 in RA model rats. Furthermore, treatment of DNMT1 inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azadC), or knockdown of DNMT1, or knockdown of MeCP2 led to increased miR-152 expression by reversion of its promoter hypermethylation, DNMT1 and MeCP2 binding to the CpG islands of miR-152 promoter. Interestingly, it is proved a synergistic inhibition effect of DNMT1 and MeCP2 in this process. Moreover, overexpression of miR-152 could inhibit DNMT1 expression and result in a decrease of DNMT1 and MeCP2 binding to miR-152 promoter, and inhibition of miR-152 expression would reverse it. These observations demonstrate a crucial functional crosstalk between miR-152 and the DNMT1, MeCP2 by a double-negative circuit involved in the pathogenesis of RA model rats.

Miao, C. G., W. J. Shi, et al. (2015). "miR-375 regulates the canonical Wnt pathway through FZD8 silencing in arthritis synovial fibroblasts." Immunol Lett 164(1): 1-10. Whether the rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis is regulated by microRNA (miRNA) is not entirely clear. In this study, we found that miR-375 was down-regulated significantly in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) in adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model compared with control. Because the web-based software TargetScan and PicTar predict Frizzled 8 (FZD8) as the target of miR-375, we investigated whether up-regulated miR-375 plays a role in the activation of the canonical Wnt signaling by targeting the FZD8. Furthermore, the purpose of the present experiments was also to determine the role of miR-375 in the pathogenesis of AIA rat model and to ascertain the effects of FZD8 in this process. Real time qPCR, Western blotting, ELISA and ChIP assay were used to assess the inhibited role of miR-375 in the pathogenesis of AIA rat model and the canonical Wnt signaling. RNA interference was also used to detect the role of knockdown of dephosphorylated beta-catenin. Luciferase reporter gene and related methods were performed to determine the FZD8 as the target of miR-375. The increased miR-375 inhibited the pathogenesis of AIA rat model as indicated by decreases in the several disease markers, such as MMP3 and fibronectin. Interestingly, miR-375 also inhibited the canonical Wnt signaling, and the stabilized form of beta-catenin blocked the miR-375 effects. FZD8 was identified as the target of miR-375 in AIA rat model by the firefly luciferase reporter gene. In summary, our results demonstrate that miR-375 regulates the pathogenesis of AIA rat model through the canonical Wnt signaling pathway. This discovery may provide new targets for therapeutic intervention to benefit RA patients.. Whether the rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis is regulated by microRNA (miRNA) is not entirely clear. In this study, we found that miR-375 was down-regulated significantly in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) in adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model compared with control. Because the web-based software TargetScan and PicTar predict Frizzled 8 (FZD8) as the target of miR-375, we investigated whether up-regulated miR-375 plays a role in the activation of the canonical Wnt signaling by targeting the FZD8. Furthermore, the purpose of the present experiments was also to determine the role of miR-375 in the pathogenesis of AIA rat model and to ascertain the effects of FZD8 in this process. Real time qPCR, Western blotting, ELISA and ChIP assay were used to assess the inhibited role of miR-375 in the pathogenesis of AIA rat model and the canonical Wnt signaling. RNA interference was also used to detect the role of knockdown of dephosphorylated beta-catenin. Luciferase reporter gene and related methods were performed to determine the FZD8 as the target of miR-375. The increased miR-375 inhibited the pathogenesis of AIA rat model as indicated by decreases in the several disease markers, such as MMP3 and fibronectin. Interestingly, miR-375 also inhibited the canonical Wnt signaling, and the stabilized form of beta-catenin blocked the miR-375 effects. FZD8 was identified as the target of miR-375 in AIA rat model by the firefly luciferase reporter gene. In summary, our results demonstrate that miR-375 regulates the pathogenesis of AIA rat model through the canonical Wnt signaling pathway. This discovery may provide new targets for therapeutic intervention to benefit RA patients.

Miao, C. G., W. J. Shi, et al. (2015). "MicroRNA-663 activates the canonical Wnt signaling through the adenomatous polyposis coli suppression." Immunol Lett 166(1): 45-54. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a symmetrical polyarticular autoimmune disease of unknown etiology. In this present study, we observed that the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) expression is down-regulated and the expression of microRNA (miR)-663 increased significantly in synovium from RA patients compared with control. Target gene prediction for miR-663 revealed that the mRNA of APC gene, which is a member of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway, has a miR-663 binding site in its 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR). The result showed that increased miR-663 suppressed the APC expression significantly, and this down-regulation of APC expression triggered the activation of canonical Wnt signaling through accumulation of beta-catenin in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS). In addition, increased miR-663 induced the FLS proliferation and the expression MMP3 and fibronectin during disease development. Therefore, miR-663 can be considered as a critical regulator of RA pathogenesis and can be utilized for developing miRNA-based therapeutic agents for RA patients.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a symmetrical polyarticular autoimmune disease of unknown etiology. In this present study, we observed that the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) expression is down-regulated and the expression of microRNA (miR)-663 increased significantly in synovium from RA patients compared with control. Target gene prediction for miR-663 revealed that the mRNA of APC gene, which is a member of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway, has a miR-663 binding site in its 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR). The result showed that increased miR-663 suppressed the APC expression significantly, and this down-regulation of APC expression triggered the activation of canonical Wnt signaling through accumulation of beta-catenin in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS). In addition, increased miR-663 induced the FLS proliferation and the expression MMP3 and fibronectin during disease development. Therefore, miR-663 can be considered as a critical regulator of RA pathogenesis and can be utilized for developing miRNA-based therapeutic agents for RA patients.

Miao, C. G., Y. Y. Yang, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA-152 modulates the canonical Wnt pathway activation by targeting DNA methyltransferase 1 in arthritic rat model." Biochimie 106: 149-156. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune and progressive systemic disease of unknown etiology. Research shows that fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) participate in the cartilage erosion, synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cytokine secretion and suggests that fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) display a crucial role in RA pathogenesis. Recent studies have suggested the role of the Wnt signaling pathway in the pathogenesis of RA. In previous study, we identified that increased methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) reduced the secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (SFRP4) expression in FLS in Arthritic rat model and the DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azadC) could induce the SFRP4 expression, indicating that DNMT has a key role in the differential expression of SFRP4. MicroRNAs (MiRNAs), which are small non-coding RNAs, are involved in diverse biological functions, regulation of gene expression, pathogenesis of autoimmune disease and carcinogenesis. In light of the directly down-regulation of miR-152 on DNMT1 expression by targeting the 3' untranslated regions of its transcript in nickel sulfide (NiS)-transformed human bronchial epithelial cells, we investigated whether miR-152 is aberrantly expressed and targets DNMT1 in FLS in Arthritic rat model. Our results demonstrated that the expression of miR-152 was specifically down-regulated in Arthritic rat model, whereas up-regulation of miR-152 in FLS resulted in a marked reduction of DNMT1 expression. Further experiments revealed that increased miR-152 indirectly up-regulated the SFRP4 expression, a negative regulator of WNT signaling pathway, by targeting the DNMT1. Moreover, activation of miR-152 expression in FLS could inhibit the canonical Wnt pathway activation and result in a significant decrease of FLS proliferation. MiR-152 and DNA methylation may provide molecular mechanisms for the activation of canonical Wnt pathway in RA. Combination of miR-152 and DNMT1 may be a promising treatment strategy for RA patients in which SFRP4 is inactivated.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune and progressive systemic disease of unknown etiology. Research shows that fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) participate in the cartilage erosion, synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cytokine secretion and suggests that fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) display a crucial role in RA pathogenesis. Recent studies have suggested the role of the Wnt signaling pathway in the pathogenesis of RA. In previous study, we identified that increased methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) reduced the secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (SFRP4) expression in FLS in Arthritic rat model and the DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azadC) could induce the SFRP4 expression, indicating that DNMT has a key role in the differential expression of SFRP4. MicroRNAs (MiRNAs), which are small non-coding RNAs, are involved in diverse biological functions, regulation of gene expression, pathogenesis of autoimmune disease and carcinogenesis. In light of the directly down-regulation of miR-152 on DNMT1 expression by targeting the 3' untranslated regions of its transcript in nickel sulfide (NiS)-transformed human bronchial epithelial cells, we investigated whether miR-152 is aberrantly expressed and targets DNMT1 in FLS in Arthritic rat model. Our results demonstrated that the expression of miR-152 was specifically down-regulated in Arthritic rat model, whereas up-regulation of miR-152 in FLS resulted in a marked reduction of DNMT1 expression. Further experiments revealed that increased miR-152 indirectly up-regulated the SFRP4 expression, a negative regulator of WNT signaling pathway, by targeting the DNMT1. Moreover, activation of miR-152 expression in FLS could inhibit the canonical Wnt pathway activation and result in a significant decrease of FLS proliferation. MiR-152 and DNA methylation may provide molecular mechanisms for the activation of canonical Wnt pathway in RA. Combination of miR-152 and DNMT1 may be a promising treatment strategy for RA patients in which SFRP4 is inactivated.

Miao, C. G., Y. Y. Yang, et al. (2013). "Wnt signaling pathway in rheumatoid arthritis, with special emphasis on the different roles in synovial inflammation and bone remodeling." Cell Signal 25(10): 2069-2078. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic symmetrical autoimmune disease of unknown etiology that affects primarily the diarthrodial joints. Characteristic features of RA pathogenesis are synovial inflammation and proliferation accompanied by cartilage erosion and bone loss. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) display an important role in the pathogenesis of RA. Several lines of evidence show that the Wnt signaling pathway significantly participates in the RA pathogenesis. The Wnt proteins are glycoproteins that bind to the Fz receptors on the cell surface, which leads to several important biological functions, such as cell differentiation, embryonic development, limb development and joint formation. Accumulated evidence has suggested that this signaling pathway plays a key role in the FLS activation, bone resorption and joint destruction during RA development. Greater knowledge of the role of the Wnt signaling pathway in RA could improve understanding of the RA pathogenesis and the differences in RA clinical presentation and prognosis. In this review, new advances of the Wnt signaling pathway in RA pathogenesis are discussed, with special emphasis on its different roles in synovial inflammation and bone remodeling. Further studies are needed to reveal the important role of the members of the Wnt signaling pathway in the RA pathogenesis and treatment.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic symmetrical autoimmune disease of unknown etiology that affects primarily the diarthrodial joints. Characteristic features of RA pathogenesis are synovial inflammation and proliferation accompanied by cartilage erosion and bone loss. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) display an important role in the pathogenesis of RA. Several lines of evidence show that the Wnt signaling pathway significantly participates in the RA pathogenesis. The Wnt proteins are glycoproteins that bind to the Fz receptors on the cell surface, which leads to several important biological functions, such as cell differentiation, embryonic development, limb development and joint formation. Accumulated evidence has suggested that this signaling pathway plays a key role in the FLS activation, bone resorption and joint destruction during RA development. Greater knowledge of the role of the Wnt signaling pathway in RA could improve understanding of the RA pathogenesis and the differences in RA clinical presentation and prognosis. In this review, new advances of the Wnt signaling pathway in RA pathogenesis are discussed, with special emphasis on its different roles in synovial inflammation and bone remodeling. Further studies are needed to reveal the important role of the members of the Wnt signaling pathway in the RA pathogenesis and treatment.

Miao, C. G., Y. Y. Yang, et al. (2013). "New advances of microRNAs in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis, with a focus on the crosstalk between DNA methylation and the microRNA machinery." Cell Signal 25(5): 1118-1125. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a symmetrical polyarticular disease of unknown aetiology that affects primarily the articular cartilage and bone. Characteristic features of RA pathogenesis are persistent inflammation, synovium hyperplasia and cartilage erosion accompanied by joint swelling and joint destruction. Several lines of evidence have showed a crucial role of activated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) in the pathogenesis of RA. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous, single-stranded, non-coding RNAs with about 21 nucleotides in length and have been detected in a variety of sources, including tissues, serum, and other body fluids, such as saliva. In light of key roles of miRNAs in the regulation of gene expression, miRNAs influence a wide range of physiological and pathological processes. For example, miRNAs are evident in various malignant and nonmalignant diseases, and accumulating evidence also shows that miRNAs have important roles in the pathogenesis of RA. It has been demonstrated that miRNAs can be aberrantly expressed even in the different stages of RA progression, allowing miRNAs to help understand the pathogenesis of the disease, to act as important biomarkers, and to monitor the disease severity and the effects of drug treatment. In addition, miRNAs are emerging as potential targets for new therapeutic strategies of this kind of autoimmune disorders. The ultimate goal is the identification of miRNA targets that could be manipulated through specific therapies, aiming at activation or inhibition of specific miRNAs responsible for the RA development. In this review, the importance of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of RA is discussed systematically, with particular emphasis on the role of the crosstalk between DNA methylation and the microRNA machinery.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a symmetrical polyarticular disease of unknown aetiology that affects primarily the articular cartilage and bone. Characteristic features of RA pathogenesis are persistent inflammation, synovium hyperplasia and cartilage erosion accompanied by joint swelling and joint destruction. Several lines of evidence have showed a crucial role of activated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) in the pathogenesis of RA. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous, single-stranded, non-coding RNAs with about 21 nucleotides in length and have been detected in a variety of sources, including tissues, serum, and other body fluids, such as saliva. In light of key roles of miRNAs in the regulation of gene expression, miRNAs influence a wide range of physiological and pathological processes. For example, miRNAs are evident in various malignant and nonmalignant diseases, and accumulating evidence also shows that miRNAs have important roles in the pathogenesis of RA. It has been demonstrated that miRNAs can be aberrantly expressed even in the different stages of RA progression, allowing miRNAs to help understand the pathogenesis of the disease, to act as important biomarkers, and to monitor the disease severity and the effects of drug treatment. In addition, miRNAs are emerging as potential targets for new therapeutic strategies of this kind of autoimmune disorders. The ultimate goal is the identification of miRNA targets that could be manipulated through specific therapies, aiming at activation or inhibition of specific miRNAs responsible for the RA development. In this review, the importance of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of RA is discussed systematically, with particular emphasis on the role of the crosstalk between DNA methylation and the microRNA machinery.

Migita, K., N. Iwanaga, et al. (2017). "TNF-alpha-induced miR-155 regulates IL-6 signaling in rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts." BMC Res Notes 10(1): 403. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of a variety of inflammatory mediators. The present study was undertaken to elucidate the role of miRNAs in the rheumatoid cytokine network. METHODS: We analyzed miRNA expression in rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). miRNA array-based screening was used to identify miRNAs differentially expressed between tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-activated RASFs and untreated RASFs. Transfection of RASFs with miR-155 was used to analyze the function of miR-155. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to measure the levels of miR-155 in RASFs. RESULTS: miRNA microarray analysis revealed that miR-155-5p was the most highly induced miRNA in TNF-alpha-stimulated RASFs. TNF-alpha-induced miR-155 expression in RASFs was time-dependent and TNFalpha dose-dependent, whereas, IL-6 stimulation did not affect miR-155 expression in RASFs. Transfection of miR-155 mimics into RASFs resulted in the decrease JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation in IL-6-treated RASFs. CONCLUSIONS: The current results demonstrate that TNF-alpha modulated miRNA expressions in RASFs. Our data showed that miR-155, which is highly induced by TNF-alpha stimulation, inhibits IL-6-mediated JAK2/STAT3 activation in RASFs. These findings suggest that miR-155 contributes to the cross-regulation between TNF-alpha and IL-6-mediated inflammatory pathways in RA.. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of a variety of inflammatory mediators. The present study was undertaken to elucidate the role of miRNAs in the rheumatoid cytokine network. METHODS: We analyzed miRNA expression in rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). miRNA array-based screening was used to identify miRNAs differentially expressed between tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-activated RASFs and untreated RASFs. Transfection of RASFs with miR-155 was used to analyze the function of miR-155. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to measure the levels of miR-155 in RASFs. RESULTS: miRNA microarray analysis revealed that miR-155-5p was the most highly induced miRNA in TNF-alpha-stimulated RASFs. TNF-alpha-induced miR-155 expression in RASFs was time-dependent and TNFalpha dose-dependent, whereas, IL-6 stimulation did not affect miR-155 expression in RASFs. Transfection of miR-155 mimics into RASFs resulted in the decrease JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation in IL-6-treated RASFs. CONCLUSIONS: The current results demonstrate that TNF-alpha modulated miRNA expressions in RASFs. Our data showed that miR-155, which is highly induced by TNF-alpha stimulation, inhibits IL-6-mediated JAK2/STAT3 activation in RASFs. These findings suggest that miR-155 contributes to the cross-regulation between TNF-alpha and IL-6-mediated inflammatory pathways in RA.

Miller, C. H., S. M. Smith, et al. (2016). "RBP-J-Regulated miR-182 Promotes TNF-alpha-Induced Osteoclastogenesis." J Immunol 196(12): 4977-4986. Increased osteoclastogenesis is responsible for osteolysis, which is a severe consequence of inflammatory diseases associated with bone destruction, such as rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis. The mechanisms that limit osteoclastogenesis under inflammatory conditions are largely unknown. We previously identified transcription factor RBP-J as a key negative regulator that restrains TNF-alpha-induced osteoclastogenesis and inflammatory bone resorption. In this study, we tested whether RBP-J suppresses inflammatory osteoclastogenesis by regulating the expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) important for this process. Using high-throughput sequencing of miRNAs, we obtained the first, to our knowledge, genome-wide profile of miRNA expression induced by TNF-alpha in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages/osteoclast precursors during inflammatory osteoclastogenesis. Furthermore, we identified miR-182 as a novel miRNA that promotes inflammatory osteoclastogenesis driven by TNF-alpha and whose expression is suppressed by RBP-J. Downregulation of miR-182 dramatically suppressed the enhanced osteoclastogenesis program induced by TNF-alpha in RBP-J-deficient cells. Complementary loss- and gain-of-function approaches showed that miR-182 is a positive regulator of osteoclastogenic transcription factors NFATc1 and B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1. Moreover, we identified that direct miR-182 targets, Foxo3 and Maml1, play important inhibitory roles in TNF-alpha-mediated osteoclastogenesis. Thus, RBP-J-regulated miR-182 promotes TNF-alpha-induced osteoclastogenesis via inhibition of Foxo3 and Maml1. Suppression of miR-182 by RBP-J serves as an important mechanism that restrains TNF-alpha-induced osteoclastogenesis. Our results provide a novel miRNA-mediated mechanism by which RBP-J inhibits osteoclastogenesis and suggest that targeting of the newly described RBP-J-miR-182-Foxo3/Maml1 axis may represent an effective therapeutic approach to suppress inflammatory osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption.. Increased osteoclastogenesis is responsible for osteolysis, which is a severe consequence of inflammatory diseases associated with bone destruction, such as rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis. The mechanisms that limit osteoclastogenesis under inflammatory conditions are largely unknown. We previously identified transcription factor RBP-J as a key negative regulator that restrains TNF-alpha-induced osteoclastogenesis and inflammatory bone resorption. In this study, we tested whether RBP-J suppresses inflammatory osteoclastogenesis by regulating the expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) important for this process. Using high-throughput sequencing of miRNAs, we obtained the first, to our knowledge, genome-wide profile of miRNA expression induced by TNF-alpha in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages/osteoclast precursors during inflammatory osteoclastogenesis. Furthermore, we identified miR-182 as a novel miRNA that promotes inflammatory osteoclastogenesis driven by TNF-alpha and whose expression is suppressed by RBP-J. Downregulation of miR-182 dramatically suppressed the enhanced osteoclastogenesis program induced by TNF-alpha in RBP-J-deficient cells. Complementary loss- and gain-of-function approaches showed that miR-182 is a positive regulator of osteoclastogenic transcription factors NFATc1 and B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1. Moreover, we identified that direct miR-182 targets, Foxo3 and Maml1, play important inhibitory roles in TNF-alpha-mediated osteoclastogenesis. Thus, RBP-J-regulated miR-182 promotes TNF-alpha-induced osteoclastogenesis via inhibition of Foxo3 and Maml1. Suppression of miR-182 by RBP-J serves as an important mechanism that restrains TNF-alpha-induced osteoclastogenesis. Our results provide a novel miRNA-mediated mechanism by which RBP-J inhibits osteoclastogenesis and suggest that targeting of the newly described RBP-J-miR-182-Foxo3/Maml1 axis may represent an effective therapeutic approach to suppress inflammatory osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption.

Mizoguchi, F., Y. Izu, et al. (2010). "Osteoclast-specific Dicer gene deficiency suppresses osteoclastic bone resorption." J Cell Biochem 109(5): 866-875. Osteoclasts are unique cells that resorb bone, and are involved in not only bone remodeling but also pathological bone loss such as osteoporosis and rheumatoid arthritis. The regulation of osteoclasts is based on a number of molecules but full details of these molecules have not yet been understood. MicroRNAs are produced by Dicer cleavage an emerging regulatory system for cell and tissue function. Here, we examine the effects of Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts on osteoclastic activity and bone mass in vivo. We specifically knocked out Dicer in osteoclasts by crossing Dicer flox mice with cathepsin K-Cre knock-in mice. Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts decreased the number of osteoclasts (N.Oc/BS) and osteoclast surface (Oc.S/BS) in vivo. Intrinsically, Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts suppressed the levels of TRAP positive multinucleated cell development in culture and also reduced NFATc1 and TRAP gene expression. MicroRNA analysis indicated that expression of miR-155 was suppressed by RANKL treatment in Dicer deficient cells. Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts suppressed osteoblastic activity in vivo including mineral apposition rate (MAR) and bone formation rate (BFR) and also suppressed expression of genes encoding type I collagen, osteocalcin, Runx2, and Efnb2 in vivo. Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts increased the levels of bone mass indicating that the Dicer deficiency-induced osteoclastic suppression was dominant over Dicer deficiency-induced osteoblastic suppression. On the other hand, conditional Dicer deletion in osteoblasts by using 2.3 kb type I collagen-Cre did not affect bone mass. These results indicate that Dicer in osteoclasts controls activity of bone resorption in vivo.. Osteoclasts are unique cells that resorb bone, and are involved in not only bone remodeling but also pathological bone loss such as osteoporosis and rheumatoid arthritis. The regulation of osteoclasts is based on a number of molecules but full details of these molecules have not yet been understood. MicroRNAs are produced by Dicer cleavage an emerging regulatory system for cell and tissue function. Here, we examine the effects of Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts on osteoclastic activity and bone mass in vivo. We specifically knocked out Dicer in osteoclasts by crossing Dicer flox mice with cathepsin K-Cre knock-in mice. Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts decreased the number of osteoclasts (N.Oc/BS) and osteoclast surface (Oc.S/BS) in vivo. Intrinsically, Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts suppressed the levels of TRAP positive multinucleated cell development in culture and also reduced NFATc1 and TRAP gene expression. MicroRNA analysis indicated that expression of miR-155 was suppressed by RANKL treatment in Dicer deficient cells. Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts suppressed osteoblastic activity in vivo including mineral apposition rate (MAR) and bone formation rate (BFR) and also suppressed expression of genes encoding type I collagen, osteocalcin, Runx2, and Efnb2 in vivo. Dicer deficiency in osteoclasts increased the levels of bone mass indicating that the Dicer deficiency-induced osteoclastic suppression was dominant over Dicer deficiency-induced osteoblastic suppression. On the other hand, conditional Dicer deletion in osteoblasts by using 2.3 kb type I collagen-Cre did not affect bone mass. These results indicate that Dicer in osteoclasts controls activity of bone resorption in vivo.

Mizoguchi, F. and H. Kohsaka (2012). "[Role of microRNA in rheumatoid arthritis]." Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi 35(1): 69-74. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous non-coding small RNAs of approximately 22 nucleotides in length. miRNAs repress expression of target genes at the posttranscription level. Biological relevance of miRNAs have been investigated in physiological and pathological conditions, revealing their involvement in fine tuning of the biological events, such as cell proliferation, differentiation and cell death. In 2008, miR-146a and miR-155 were reported to be involved in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis. Subsequently, expression and function of other miRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis have been reported. These reports suggest that miRNAs could be novel candidates for the therapeutic target or biomarker of rheumatoid arthritis. Further investigations are required to identify, characterize and modulate the key miRNA in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous non-coding small RNAs of approximately 22 nucleotides in length. miRNAs repress expression of target genes at the posttranscription level. Biological relevance of miRNAs have been investigated in physiological and pathological conditions, revealing their involvement in fine tuning of the biological events, such as cell proliferation, differentiation and cell death. In 2008, miR-146a and miR-155 were reported to be involved in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis. Subsequently, expression and function of other miRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis have been reported. These reports suggest that miRNAs could be novel candidates for the therapeutic target or biomarker of rheumatoid arthritis. Further investigations are required to identify, characterize and modulate the key miRNA in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis.

Mizoguchi, F., Y. Murakami, et al. (2013). "miR-31 controls osteoclast formation and bone resorption by targeting RhoA." Arthritis Res Ther 15(5): R102. INTRODUCTION: Increased activity of osteoclasts is responsible for bone loss and joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis. For osteoclast development and bone resorption activity, cytoskeletal organization must be properly regulated. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small noncoding RNAs that suppress expression of their target genes. This study was conducted to identify crucial miRNAs to control osteoclasts. METHODS: miRNA expression in the bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMM) with or without receptor activator of nuclear factor kappaB ligand (RANKL) stimulation was analyzed by miRNA array. To examine the role of specific miRNAs in osteoclast formation, bone resorption activity and actin ring formation, the BMM were retrovirally transduced with miRNA antagomirs. To confirm whether the suppressive effects on osteoclastogenesis by miR-31 inhibition were mediated by targeting RhoA, osteoclast formation was analyzed in the presence of the RhoA inhibitor, exoenzyme C3. RESULTS: miR-31 was identified as one of the highly upregulated miRNAs during osteoclast development under RANKL stimulation. Inhibition of miR-31 by specific antagomirs suppressed the RANKL-induced formation of osteoclasts and bone resorption. Phalloidin staining of osteoclasts revealed that actin ring formation at the cell periphery was severely impaired by miR-31 inhibition, and clusters of small ringed podosomes were observed instead. In these osteoclasts, expression of RhoA, one of the miR-31 target genes, was upregulated by miR-31 inhibition in spite of the impaired osteoclastogenesis. Treatment with the RhoA inhibitor, exoenzyme C3, rescued the osteoclastogenesis impaired by miR-31 inhibition. CONCLUSIONS: miR-31 controls cytoskeleton organization in osteoclasts for optimal bone resorption activity by regulating the expression of RhoA.. INTRODUCTION: Increased activity of osteoclasts is responsible for bone loss and joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis. For osteoclast development and bone resorption activity, cytoskeletal organization must be properly regulated. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small noncoding RNAs that suppress expression of their target genes. This study was conducted to identify crucial miRNAs to control osteoclasts. METHODS: miRNA expression in the bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMM) with or without receptor activator of nuclear factor kappaB ligand (RANKL) stimulation was analyzed by miRNA array. To examine the role of specific miRNAs in osteoclast formation, bone resorption activity and actin ring formation, the BMM were retrovirally transduced with miRNA antagomirs. To confirm whether the suppressive effects on osteoclastogenesis by miR-31 inhibition were mediated by targeting RhoA, osteoclast formation was analyzed in the presence of the RhoA inhibitor, exoenzyme C3. RESULTS: miR-31 was identified as one of the highly upregulated miRNAs during osteoclast development under RANKL stimulation. Inhibition of miR-31 by specific antagomirs suppressed the RANKL-induced formation of osteoclasts and bone resorption. Phalloidin staining of osteoclasts revealed that actin ring formation at the cell periphery was severely impaired by miR-31 inhibition, and clusters of small ringed podosomes were observed instead. In these osteoclasts, expression of RhoA, one of the miR-31 target genes, was upregulated by miR-31 inhibition in spite of the impaired osteoclastogenesis. Treatment with the RhoA inhibitor, exoenzyme C3, rescued the osteoclastogenesis impaired by miR-31 inhibition. CONCLUSIONS: miR-31 controls cytoskeleton organization in osteoclasts for optimal bone resorption activity by regulating the expression of RhoA.

Mo, B. Y., X. H. Guo, et al. (2018). "Long Non-Coding RNA GAPLINC Promotes Tumor-Like Biologic Behaviors of Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes as MicroRNA Sponging in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients." Front Immunol 9: 702. Rapidly accumulating evidence has now suggested that the long non-coding RNAs (LncRNAs), a large and diverse class of non-coding transcribed RNA molecules with diverse functional roles and mechanisms, play a major role in the pathogenesis of many human inflammatory diseases. Although some LncRNAs are overexpressed in plasma, T cell, and synovial tissues of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), there is a dearth of knowledge in what role these transcripts play in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) of these patients. Here, our studies showed that GAPLINC, a newly identified functional LncRNA in oncology, displayed a greater degree of expression in FLSs from RA than in patients with traumatic injury. GAPLINC suppression in RA-FLS cells revealed significant alterations in cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and proinflammatory cytokines production. Additionally, we performed a preliminary bioinformatics analysis of GAPLINC gene sequence in order to find its target molecules, using miRanda, PITA, RNAhybrid algorithms, Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes, and gene ontology analysis. Since the results predicted that some of microRNAs and mRNA may interact with GAPLINC, we simulated a gene co-action network model based on a competitive endogenous RNA theory. Further verification of this model demonstrated that silencing of GAPLINC increased miR-382-5p and miR-575 expression. The results of this study suggest that GAPLINC may function as a novel microRNAs sponging agent affecting the biological characteristics of RA-FLSs. Additionally, GAPLINC may also promote RA-FLS tumor-like behaviors in a miR-382-5p-dependent and miR-575-dependent manner. Based upon these findings, LncRNA GAPLINC may provide a novel valuable therapeutic target for RA patients.. Rapidly accumulating evidence has now suggested that the long non-coding RNAs (LncRNAs), a large and diverse class of non-coding transcribed RNA molecules with diverse functional roles and mechanisms, play a major role in the pathogenesis of many human inflammatory diseases. Although some LncRNAs are overexpressed in plasma, T cell, and synovial tissues of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), there is a dearth of knowledge in what role these transcripts play in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) of these patients. Here, our studies showed that GAPLINC, a newly identified functional LncRNA in oncology, displayed a greater degree of expression in FLSs from RA than in patients with traumatic injury. GAPLINC suppression in RA-FLS cells revealed significant alterations in cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and proinflammatory cytokines production. Additionally, we performed a preliminary bioinformatics analysis of GAPLINC gene sequence in order to find its target molecules, using miRanda, PITA, RNAhybrid algorithms, Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes, and gene ontology analysis. Since the results predicted that some of microRNAs and mRNA may interact with GAPLINC, we simulated a gene co-action network model based on a competitive endogenous RNA theory. Further verification of this model demonstrated that silencing of GAPLINC increased miR-382-5p and miR-575 expression. The results of this study suggest that GAPLINC may function as a novel microRNAs sponging agent affecting the biological characteristics of RA-FLSs. Additionally, GAPLINC may also promote RA-FLS tumor-like behaviors in a miR-382-5p-dependent and miR-575-dependent manner. Based upon these findings, LncRNA GAPLINC may provide a novel valuable therapeutic target for RA patients.

Mohammad, A. A., A. Rahbar, et al. (2014). "Detection of circulating hcmv-miR-UL112-3p in patients with glioblastoma, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes mellitus and healthy controls." PLoS One 9(12): e113740. BACKGROUND: microRNAs (miRNA) are 18-22 nucleotides long non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression at a post-transcriptional level. Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) encodes at least 26 known mature miRNAs. hcmv-miR-UL112-3p (miR-UL112-3p) is the most well characterized HCMV miRNA, which is suggested to play role in establishment and maintenance of viral latency. Elevated miR-UL112-3p levels have been reported to be present in plasma of patients with hypertension. OBJECTIVES: In this study, we aimed to quantify miR-UL112-3p levels in the plasma/serum of patients with Diabetes Mellitus (DM; from the DIGAMI-2 cohort), Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and Healthy Controls (HC). STUDY DESIGN: Total RNA was isolated from plasma/serum samples of 87 patients and controls, a TaqMan miRNA assay was performed to detect miR-UL112-3p and the copy numbers were normalized to 10 ng of total RNA. HCMV IgG and IgM were analysed using ELISA. RESULTS: HCMV miR-UL112-3p was detected in 14/27 (52%) of DM, 5/20 (25%) of GBM, 1/20 (5%) of RA patients and in 2/20 (10%) of HC, respectively. Anti-HCMV IgG was detected in 85%, 65%, 75% of patients and 70% of HC, respectively. Anti-HCMV IgM was found only in one GBM patient of 87 examined patients and controls. CONCLUSIONS: A higher prevalence of miR-UL112-3p was detected in DM and GBM patients than in RA patients and HC. Elevated levels of miR-UL112-3p and higher prevalence of HCMV IgG were observed in DM patients. Whether the presence of circulating miR-UL112-3p denotes a biomarker of HCMV latency or active replication in patients warrants further investigation.. BACKGROUND: microRNAs (miRNA) are 18-22 nucleotides long non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression at a post-transcriptional level. Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) encodes at least 26 known mature miRNAs. hcmv-miR-UL112-3p (miR-UL112-3p) is the most well characterized HCMV miRNA, which is suggested to play role in establishment and maintenance of viral latency. Elevated miR-UL112-3p levels have been reported to be present in plasma of patients with hypertension. OBJECTIVES: In this study, we aimed to quantify miR-UL112-3p levels in the plasma/serum of patients with Diabetes Mellitus (DM; from the DIGAMI-2 cohort), Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and Healthy Controls (HC). STUDY DESIGN: Total RNA was isolated from plasma/serum samples of 87 patients and controls, a TaqMan miRNA assay was performed to detect miR-UL112-3p and the copy numbers were normalized to 10 ng of total RNA. HCMV IgG and IgM were analysed using ELISA. RESULTS: HCMV miR-UL112-3p was detected in 14/27 (52%) of DM, 5/20 (25%) of GBM, 1/20 (5%) of RA patients and in 2/20 (10%) of HC, respectively. Anti-HCMV IgG was detected in 85%, 65%, 75% of patients and 70% of HC, respectively. Anti-HCMV IgM was found only in one GBM patient of 87 examined patients and controls. CONCLUSIONS: A higher prevalence of miR-UL112-3p was detected in DM and GBM patients than in RA patients and HC. Elevated levels of miR-UL112-3p and higher prevalence of HCMV IgG were observed in DM patients. Whether the presence of circulating miR-UL112-3p denotes a biomarker of HCMV latency or active replication in patients warrants further investigation.

Mookherjee, N. and H. S. El-Gabalawy (2013). "High degree of correlation between whole blood and PBMC expression levels of miR-155 and miR-146a in healthy controls and rheumatoid arthritis patients." J Immunol Methods 400-401: 106-110. Elevated expression of specific microRNAs (miRNA) in peripheral blood-derived mononuclear cells (PBMC), particularly miR-146a and miR-155, is associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Whole blood has not been explored as a potential clinical material for monitoring the expression of miRNAs in RA. We sought to determine whether miRNA levels detected in whole blood samples correlated with those detected in simultaneously isolated peripheral blood-derived mononuclear cells (PBMC) from the same individuals, thus establishing the feasibility of using whole blood as a viable clinical material for monitoring miRNA expression in RA and other disorders. We demonstrated a highly significant linear correlation between miR-146a and miR-155 expression in PBMC and whole blood, from both healthy individuals and RA patients. Whole blood samples accurately reflect miRNA levels in PBMC and would be useful in monitoring the expression of miRNAs as biomarkers. The detection of miRNA levels in samples that are readily obtained in routine clinical practice, such as whole blood, enhances their potential utility in detecting changes in the immunological mechanisms underlying autoimmune diseases such as RA.. Elevated expression of specific microRNAs (miRNA) in peripheral blood-derived mononuclear cells (PBMC), particularly miR-146a and miR-155, is associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Whole blood has not been explored as a potential clinical material for monitoring the expression of miRNAs in RA. We sought to determine whether miRNA levels detected in whole blood samples correlated with those detected in simultaneously isolated peripheral blood-derived mononuclear cells (PBMC) from the same individuals, thus establishing the feasibility of using whole blood as a viable clinical material for monitoring miRNA expression in RA and other disorders. We demonstrated a highly significant linear correlation between miR-146a and miR-155 expression in PBMC and whole blood, from both healthy individuals and RA patients. Whole blood samples accurately reflect miRNA levels in PBMC and would be useful in monitoring the expression of miRNAs as biomarkers. The detection of miRNA levels in samples that are readily obtained in routine clinical practice, such as whole blood, enhances their potential utility in detecting changes in the immunological mechanisms underlying autoimmune diseases such as RA.

Moriya, N., S. Shibasaki, et al. (2017). "The Impact of MicroRNA-223-3p on IL-17 Receptor D Expression in Synovial Cells." PLoS One 12(1): e0169702. OBJECTIVE: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune inflammatory disease affecting joints. Elevated plasma levels of microRNA-223-3p (miR-223-3p) in patients with RA are implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease. This study aimed to analyze the functional role of miR-223-3p in the pathogenesis of RA by overexpressing miR-223-3p in synovial cell lines. METHODS: Arthritis was induced in the RA model of SKG mice by injection of ss-glucan. The histopathologic features of joints were examined using hematoxylin and eosin and immunohistochemical staining. Plasma levels of miRNA were determined by panel real-time PCR analysis. Target genes of the differentially expressed miRNAs in SKG mice were analyzed using miRNA target prediction algorithms. The dual-luciferase reporter system was used to evaluate the relationship between miR-223-3p and IL-17 receptor D (IL-17RD). The activity of miR-223-3p was analyzed by transfection of plasmid vectors overexpressing miR-223-3p into IL-17RD-expressing NIH3T3 and MH7A cell lines. Il6 and Il17rd mRNA expression was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. IL-17RD protein expression was analyzed by western blot analysis. RESULTS: We identified 17 upregulated miRNAs (fold change > 2.0) in plasma of SKG mice injected with ss-glucan relative to untreated SKG mice. Il17rd was identified as the candidate target gene of miR-223-3p using five miRNA target prediction algorithms. The transfection of plasmid vectors overexpressing miR-223-3p into NIH3T3 and MH7A cells resulted in the downregulation of Il17rd expression and upregulation of Il6 expression. Expression of miR-223-3p and Il6 mRNA in MH7A cells was upregulated; however, that of Il17rd mRNA was downregulated following TNF-alpha stimulation. IL-17RD expression in synovial tissues from SKG mice and RA patients was inversely correlated with the severity of arthritis. CONCLUSION: This study is the first to demonstrate that miR-223-3p downregulates IL-17RD in both mouse and human cells; miR-223-3p may contribute to the pathogenesis of RA by downregulating the expression of IL-17RD and upregulating that of IL-6 in synovial cells.. OBJECTIVE: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune inflammatory disease affecting joints. Elevated plasma levels of microRNA-223-3p (miR-223-3p) in patients with RA are implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease. This study aimed to analyze the functional role of miR-223-3p in the pathogenesis of RA by overexpressing miR-223-3p in synovial cell lines. METHODS: Arthritis was induced in the RA model of SKG mice by injection of ss-glucan. The histopathologic features of joints were examined using hematoxylin and eosin and immunohistochemical staining. Plasma levels of miRNA were determined by panel real-time PCR analysis. Target genes of the differentially expressed miRNAs in SKG mice were analyzed using miRNA target prediction algorithms. The dual-luciferase reporter system was used to evaluate the relationship between miR-223-3p and IL-17 receptor D (IL-17RD). The activity of miR-223-3p was analyzed by transfection of plasmid vectors overexpressing miR-223-3p into IL-17RD-expressing NIH3T3 and MH7A cell lines. Il6 and Il17rd mRNA expression was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. IL-17RD protein expression was analyzed by western blot analysis. RESULTS: We identified 17 upregulated miRNAs (fold change > 2.0) in plasma of SKG mice injected with ss-glucan relative to untreated SKG mice. Il17rd was identified as the candidate target gene of miR-223-3p using five miRNA target prediction algorithms. The transfection of plasmid vectors overexpressing miR-223-3p into NIH3T3 and MH7A cells resulted in the downregulation of Il17rd expression and upregulation of Il6 expression. Expression of miR-223-3p and Il6 mRNA in MH7A cells was upregulated; however, that of Il17rd mRNA was downregulated following TNF-alpha stimulation. IL-17RD expression in synovial tissues from SKG mice and RA patients was inversely correlated with the severity of arthritis. CONCLUSION: This study is the first to demonstrate that miR-223-3p downregulates IL-17RD in both mouse and human cells; miR-223-3p may contribute to the pathogenesis of RA by downregulating the expression of IL-17RD and upregulating that of IL-6 in synovial cells.

Mu, N., J. Gu, et al. (2016). "A novel NF-kappaB/YY1/microRNA-10a regulatory circuit in fibroblast-like synoviocytes regulates inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis." Sci Rep 6: 20059. The main etiopathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is overexpressed inflammatory cytokines and tissue injury mediated by persistent NF-kappaB activation. MicroRNAs widely participate in the regulation of target gene expression and play important roles in various diseases. Here, we explored the mechanisms of microRNAs in RA. We found that microRNA (miR)-10a was downregulated in the fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) of RA patients compared with osteoarthritis (OA) controls, and this downregulation could be triggered by TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in an NF-kappaB-dependent manner through promoting the expression of the YingYang 1 (YY1) transcription factor. Downregulated miR-10a could accelerate IkappaB degradation and NF-kappaB activation by targeting IRAK4, TAK1 and BTRC. This miR-10a-mediated NF-kappaB activation then significantly promoted the production of various inflammatory cytokines, including TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1, and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-13. In addition, transfection of a miR-10a inhibitor accelerated the proliferation and migration of FLSs. Collectively, our data demonstrates the existence of a novel NF-kappaB/YY1/miR-10a/NF-kappaB regulatory circuit that promotes the excessive secretion of NF-kappaB-mediated inflammatory cytokines and the proliferation and migration of RA FLSs. Thus, miR-10a acts as a switch to control this regulatory circuit and may serve as a diagnostic and therapeutic target for RA treatment.. The main etiopathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is overexpressed inflammatory cytokines and tissue injury mediated by persistent NF-kappaB activation. MicroRNAs widely participate in the regulation of target gene expression and play important roles in various diseases. Here, we explored the mechanisms of microRNAs in RA. We found that microRNA (miR)-10a was downregulated in the fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) of RA patients compared with osteoarthritis (OA) controls, and this downregulation could be triggered by TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in an NF-kappaB-dependent manner through promoting the expression of the YingYang 1 (YY1) transcription factor. Downregulated miR-10a could accelerate IkappaB degradation and NF-kappaB activation by targeting IRAK4, TAK1 and BTRC. This miR-10a-mediated NF-kappaB activation then significantly promoted the production of various inflammatory cytokines, including TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1, and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-13. In addition, transfection of a miR-10a inhibitor accelerated the proliferation and migration of FLSs. Collectively, our data demonstrates the existence of a novel NF-kappaB/YY1/miR-10a/NF-kappaB regulatory circuit that promotes the excessive secretion of NF-kappaB-mediated inflammatory cytokines and the proliferation and migration of RA FLSs. Thus, miR-10a acts as a switch to control this regulatory circuit and may serve as a diagnostic and therapeutic target for RA treatment.

Murata, K., M. Furu, et al. (2013). "Comprehensive microRNA analysis identifies miR-24 and miR-125a-5p as plasma biomarkers for rheumatoid arthritis." PLoS One 8(7): e69118. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are present in human plasma and known as a non-invasive biomarker for cancer detection. Our study was designed to identify plasma miRNAs specific for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) by a comprehensive array approach. We performed a systematic, array-based miRNA analysis on plasma samples from three RA patients and three healthy controls (HCs). Plasma miRNAs with more than four times change or with significant (P<0.05) change in expression, or detectable only in RA plasma, were confirmed with plasma from eight RA patients and eight HCs using real-time quantitative PCR. Consistently detectable miRNAs that were significantly different between RA patients and HCs were chosen for further validation with 102 RA patients and 104 HCs. The area under curves (AUC) were calculated after plotting the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. To determine if these miRNAs are specific for RA, the concentrations of these miRNAs were analyzed in 24 patients with osteoarthritis (OA), and 11 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The array analysis and the subsequent confirmation in larger patient cohort identified significant alterations in plasma levels of seven miRNAs. The highest AUC was found for miR-125a-5p, followed in order by miR-24 and miR-26a. Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that miR-24, miR-30a-5p, and miR-125a-5p were crucial factors for making detection model of RA and provided a formula for Estimated Probability of RA by plasma MiRNA (ePRAM), employing miR-24, miR-30a-5p and miR-125a-5p, which showed increased diagnostic accuracy (AUC: 0.89). The level of miR-24, miR-125a-5p, and ePRAM in OA and SLE patients were lower than that in RA. There was no significant difference in detection for anti-citrullinated protein antibody (ACPA)-positive and ACPA-negative RA patients. These results suggest that the plasma concentrations of miR-24 and miR-125a-5p, and ePRAM are potential diagnostic markers of RA even if patients were ACPA-negative.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are present in human plasma and known as a non-invasive biomarker for cancer detection. Our study was designed to identify plasma miRNAs specific for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) by a comprehensive array approach. We performed a systematic, array-based miRNA analysis on plasma samples from three RA patients and three healthy controls (HCs). Plasma miRNAs with more than four times change or with significant (P<0.05) change in expression, or detectable only in RA plasma, were confirmed with plasma from eight RA patients and eight HCs using real-time quantitative PCR. Consistently detectable miRNAs that were significantly different between RA patients and HCs were chosen for further validation with 102 RA patients and 104 HCs. The area under curves (AUC) were calculated after plotting the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. To determine if these miRNAs are specific for RA, the concentrations of these miRNAs were analyzed in 24 patients with osteoarthritis (OA), and 11 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The array analysis and the subsequent confirmation in larger patient cohort identified significant alterations in plasma levels of seven miRNAs. The highest AUC was found for miR-125a-5p, followed in order by miR-24 and miR-26a. Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that miR-24, miR-30a-5p, and miR-125a-5p were crucial factors for making detection model of RA and provided a formula for Estimated Probability of RA by plasma MiRNA (ePRAM), employing miR-24, miR-30a-5p and miR-125a-5p, which showed increased diagnostic accuracy (AUC: 0.89). The level of miR-24, miR-125a-5p, and ePRAM in OA and SLE patients were lower than that in RA. There was no significant difference in detection for anti-citrullinated protein antibody (ACPA)-positive and ACPA-negative RA patients. These results suggest that the plasma concentrations of miR-24 and miR-125a-5p, and ePRAM are potential diagnostic markers of RA even if patients were ACPA-negative.

Murata, K., H. Yoshitomi, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA-451 down-regulates neutrophil chemotaxis via p38 MAPK." Arthritis Rheumatol 66(3): 549-559. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small noncoding RNAs that regulate the activity of target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and cellular processes. MicroRNA-451 (miR-451) is one of the miRNAs that is conserved perfectly among vertebrates, and it regulates cell proliferation, invasion, and apoptosis in tumors. However, the role of miR-451 in autoimmune arthritis is unknown. This study was undertaken to identify the role of miR-451 in autoimmune arthritis. METHODS: We compared the expression of miR-451 in neutrophils from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and healthy controls. We also evaluated the role of miR-451 in neutrophil chemotaxis in vivo and in vitro using murine neutrophils. The regulation of p38 MAPK by miR-451 was assessed. Double-stranded miR-451 was administered to SKG mice, the arthritis score was determined, and histologic examination was performed. RESULTS: MicroRNA-451 expression in neutrophils isolated from patients with RA was lower than that in healthy controls. Systemic administration of miR-451 significantly disrupted the infiltration of neutrophils in an air-pouch model of local inflammation without affecting apoptosis of neutrophils. Overexpression of miR-451 significantly suppressed the migration of neutrophils to fMLP. We identified CPNE3 and Rab5a as direct targets of miR-451. Overexpression of miR-451 suppressed the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK via 14-3-3zeta, a known target of miR-451, and Rab5a. In SKG mice, miR-451 treatment reduced the severity of arthritis and the number of infiltrating cells. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that miR-451 suppresses neutrophil chemotaxis via p38 MAPK and is a potential target in the treatment of RA.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small noncoding RNAs that regulate the activity of target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and cellular processes. MicroRNA-451 (miR-451) is one of the miRNAs that is conserved perfectly among vertebrates, and it regulates cell proliferation, invasion, and apoptosis in tumors. However, the role of miR-451 in autoimmune arthritis is unknown. This study was undertaken to identify the role of miR-451 in autoimmune arthritis. METHODS: We compared the expression of miR-451 in neutrophils from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and healthy controls. We also evaluated the role of miR-451 in neutrophil chemotaxis in vivo and in vitro using murine neutrophils. The regulation of p38 MAPK by miR-451 was assessed. Double-stranded miR-451 was administered to SKG mice, the arthritis score was determined, and histologic examination was performed. RESULTS: MicroRNA-451 expression in neutrophils isolated from patients with RA was lower than that in healthy controls. Systemic administration of miR-451 significantly disrupted the infiltration of neutrophils in an air-pouch model of local inflammation without affecting apoptosis of neutrophils. Overexpression of miR-451 significantly suppressed the migration of neutrophils to fMLP. We identified CPNE3 and Rab5a as direct targets of miR-451. Overexpression of miR-451 suppressed the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK via 14-3-3zeta, a known target of miR-451, and Rab5a. In SKG mice, miR-451 treatment reduced the severity of arthritis and the number of infiltrating cells. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that miR-451 suppresses neutrophil chemotaxis via p38 MAPK and is a potential target in the treatment of RA.

Murata, K., H. Yoshitomi, et al. (2010). "Plasma and synovial fluid microRNAs as potential biomarkers of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis." Arthritis Res Ther 12(3): R86. INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRNAs), endogenous small noncoding RNAs regulating the activities of target mRNAs and cellular processes, are present in human plasma in a stable form. In this study, we investigated whether miRNAs are also stably present in synovial fluids and whether plasma and synovial fluid miRNAs could be biomarkers of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA). METHODS: We measured concentrations of miR-16, miR-132, miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-223 in synovial fluid from patients with RA and OA, and those in plasma from RA, OA and healthy controls (HCs) by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Furthermore, miRNAs in the conditioned medium of synovial tissues, monolayer fibroblast-like synoviocytes, and mononuclear cells were examined. Correlations between miRNAs and biomarkers or disease activities of RA were statistically examined. RESULTS: Synovial fluid miRNAs were present and as stable as plasma miRNAs for storage at -20 degrees C and freeze-thawing from -20 degrees C to 4 degrees C. In RA and OA, synovial fluid concentrations of miR-16, miR-132, miR-146a, and miR-223 were significantly lower than their plasma concentrations, and there were no correlation between plasma and synovial fluid miRNAs. Interestingly, synovial tissues, fibroblast-like synoviocytes, and mononuclear cells secreted miRNAs in distinct patterns. The expression patterns of miRNAs in synovial fluid of OA were similar to miRNAs secreted by synovial tissues. Synovial fluid miRNAs of RA were likely to originate from synovial tissues and infiltrating cells. Plasma miR-132 of HC was significantly higher than that of RA or OA with high diagnosability. Synovial fluid concentrations of miR-16, miR-146a miR-155 and miR-223 of RA were significantly higher than those of OA. Plasma miRNAs or ratio of synovial fluid miRNAs to plasma miRNAs, including miR-16 and miR-146a, significantly correlated with tender joint counts and 28-joint Disease Activity Score. CONCLUSIONS: Plasma miRNAs had distinct patterns from synovial fluid miRNAs, which appeared to originate from synovial tissue. Plasma miR-132 well differentiated HCs from patients with RA or OA, while synovial fluid miRNAs differentiated RA and OA. Furthermore, plasma miRNAs correlated with the disease activities of RA. Thus, synovial fluid and plasma miRNAs have potential as diagnostic biomarkers for RA and OA and as a tool for the analysis of their pathogenesis.. INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRNAs), endogenous small noncoding RNAs regulating the activities of target mRNAs and cellular processes, are present in human plasma in a stable form. In this study, we investigated whether miRNAs are also stably present in synovial fluids and whether plasma and synovial fluid miRNAs could be biomarkers of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA). METHODS: We measured concentrations of miR-16, miR-132, miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-223 in synovial fluid from patients with RA and OA, and those in plasma from RA, OA and healthy controls (HCs) by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Furthermore, miRNAs in the conditioned medium of synovial tissues, monolayer fibroblast-like synoviocytes, and mononuclear cells were examined. Correlations between miRNAs and biomarkers or disease activities of RA were statistically examined. RESULTS: Synovial fluid miRNAs were present and as stable as plasma miRNAs for storage at -20 degrees C and freeze-thawing from -20 degrees C to 4 degrees C. In RA and OA, synovial fluid concentrations of miR-16, miR-132, miR-146a, and miR-223 were significantly lower than their plasma concentrations, and there were no correlation between plasma and synovial fluid miRNAs. Interestingly, synovial tissues, fibroblast-like synoviocytes, and mononuclear cells secreted miRNAs in distinct patterns. The expression patterns of miRNAs in synovial fluid of OA were similar to miRNAs secreted by synovial tissues. Synovial fluid miRNAs of RA were likely to originate from synovial tissues and infiltrating cells. Plasma miR-132 of HC was significantly higher than that of RA or OA with high diagnosability. Synovial fluid concentrations of miR-16, miR-146a miR-155 and miR-223 of RA were significantly higher than those of OA. Plasma miRNAs or ratio of synovial fluid miRNAs to plasma miRNAs, including miR-16 and miR-146a, significantly correlated with tender joint counts and 28-joint Disease Activity Score. CONCLUSIONS: Plasma miRNAs had distinct patterns from synovial fluid miRNAs, which appeared to originate from synovial tissue. Plasma miR-132 well differentiated HCs from patients with RA or OA, while synovial fluid miRNAs differentiated RA and OA. Furthermore, plasma miRNAs correlated with the disease activities of RA. Thus, synovial fluid and plasma miRNAs have potential as diagnostic biomarkers for RA and OA and as a tool for the analysis of their pathogenesis.

Nakamachi, Y., S. Kawano, et al. (2009). "MicroRNA-124a is a key regulator of proliferation and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 secretion in fibroblast-like synoviocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis." Arthritis Rheum 60(5): 1294-1304. OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the role of microRNA (miRNA) in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), we analyzed synoviocytes from RA patients for their miRNA expression. METHODS: Synoviocytes derived from surgical specimens obtained from RA patients were compared with those obtained from osteoarthritis (OA) patients for their expression of a panel of 156 miRNA with quantitative stem-loop reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The miRNA whose expression decreased or increased in RA synoviocytes as compared with OA synoviocytes were identified, and their target genes were predicted by computer analysis. We used an in vitro system of enhancing the expression of specific miRNA by transfection of precursors into synoviocytes, and then we performed proliferation, cell cycle, and apoptosis assays, as well as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for cytokine production. The effects of transfection on predicted target protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) were then examined by Western blot analysis and luciferase reporter assay. RESULTS: We found that miR-124a levels significantly decreased in RA synoviocytes as compared with OA synoviocytes. Transfection of precursor miR-124a into RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed their proliferation and arrested the cell cycle at the G1 phase. We identified a putative consensus site for miR-124a binding in the 3'-untranslated region of cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK-2) and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) mRNA. Induction of miR-124a in RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed the production of the CDK-2 and MCP-1 proteins. Luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that miR-124a specifically suppressed the reporter activity driven by the 3'-untranslated regions of CDK-2 and MCP-1 mRNA. CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that miR-124a is a key miRNA in the posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms of RA synoviocytes.. OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the role of microRNA (miRNA) in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), we analyzed synoviocytes from RA patients for their miRNA expression. METHODS: Synoviocytes derived from surgical specimens obtained from RA patients were compared with those obtained from osteoarthritis (OA) patients for their expression of a panel of 156 miRNA with quantitative stem-loop reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The miRNA whose expression decreased or increased in RA synoviocytes as compared with OA synoviocytes were identified, and their target genes were predicted by computer analysis. We used an in vitro system of enhancing the expression of specific miRNA by transfection of precursors into synoviocytes, and then we performed proliferation, cell cycle, and apoptosis assays, as well as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for cytokine production. The effects of transfection on predicted target protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) were then examined by Western blot analysis and luciferase reporter assay. RESULTS: We found that miR-124a levels significantly decreased in RA synoviocytes as compared with OA synoviocytes. Transfection of precursor miR-124a into RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed their proliferation and arrested the cell cycle at the G1 phase. We identified a putative consensus site for miR-124a binding in the 3'-untranslated region of cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK-2) and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) mRNA. Induction of miR-124a in RA synoviocytes significantly suppressed the production of the CDK-2 and MCP-1 proteins. Luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that miR-124a specifically suppressed the reporter activity driven by the 3'-untranslated regions of CDK-2 and MCP-1 mRNA. CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that miR-124a is a key miRNA in the posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms of RA synoviocytes.

Nakamachi, Y., K. Ohnuma, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-124 inhibits the progression of adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats." Ann Rheum Dis 75(3): 601-608. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous, non-coding RNAs that act as post-transcriptional regulators. We analysed the in vivo effect of miRNA-124 (miR-124, the rat analogue of human miR-124a) on adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) in rats. METHODS: AIA was induced in Lewis rats by injecting incomplete Freund's adjuvant with heat-killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Precursor (pre)-miR-124 was injected into the right hind ankle on day 9. Morphological changes in the ankle joint were assessed by micro-CT and histopathology. Cytokine expression was examined by western blotting and real-time RT-PCR. The effect of miR-124 on predicted target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) was examined by luciferase reporter assays. The effect of pre-miR-124 or pre-miR-124a on the differentiation of human osteoclasts was examined by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining. RESULTS: We found that miR-124 suppressed AIA in rats, as demonstrated by decreased synoviocyte proliferation, leucocyte infiltration and cartilage or bone destruction. Osteoclast counts and expression level of receptor activator of the nuclear factor kappaB ligand (RANKL), integrin beta1 (ITGB1) and nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1 (NFATc1) were reduced in AIA rats treated with pre-miR-124. Luciferase analysis showed that miR-124 directly targeted the 3'UTR of the rat NFATc1, ITGB1, specificity protein 1 and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha mRNAs. Pre-miR-124 also suppressed NFATc1 expression in RAW264.7 cells. Both miR-124 and miR-124a directly targeted the 3'-UTR of human NFATc1 mRNA, and both pre-miR-124 and pre-miR-124a suppressed the differentiation of human osteoclasts. CONCLUSIONS: We found that miR-124 ameliorated AIA by suppressing critical prerequisites for arthritis development, such as RANKL and NFATc1. Thus, miR-124a is a candidate for therapeutic use for human rheumatoid arthritis.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous, non-coding RNAs that act as post-transcriptional regulators. We analysed the in vivo effect of miRNA-124 (miR-124, the rat analogue of human miR-124a) on adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) in rats. METHODS: AIA was induced in Lewis rats by injecting incomplete Freund's adjuvant with heat-killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Precursor (pre)-miR-124 was injected into the right hind ankle on day 9. Morphological changes in the ankle joint were assessed by micro-CT and histopathology. Cytokine expression was examined by western blotting and real-time RT-PCR. The effect of miR-124 on predicted target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) was examined by luciferase reporter assays. The effect of pre-miR-124 or pre-miR-124a on the differentiation of human osteoclasts was examined by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining. RESULTS: We found that miR-124 suppressed AIA in rats, as demonstrated by decreased synoviocyte proliferation, leucocyte infiltration and cartilage or bone destruction. Osteoclast counts and expression level of receptor activator of the nuclear factor kappaB ligand (RANKL), integrin beta1 (ITGB1) and nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1 (NFATc1) were reduced in AIA rats treated with pre-miR-124. Luciferase analysis showed that miR-124 directly targeted the 3'UTR of the rat NFATc1, ITGB1, specificity protein 1 and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha mRNAs. Pre-miR-124 also suppressed NFATc1 expression in RAW264.7 cells. Both miR-124 and miR-124a directly targeted the 3'-UTR of human NFATc1 mRNA, and both pre-miR-124 and pre-miR-124a suppressed the differentiation of human osteoclasts. CONCLUSIONS: We found that miR-124 ameliorated AIA by suppressing critical prerequisites for arthritis development, such as RANKL and NFATc1. Thus, miR-124a is a candidate for therapeutic use for human rheumatoid arthritis.

Nakasa, T., S. Miyaki, et al. (2008). "Expression of microRNA-146 in rheumatoid arthritis synovial tissue." Arthritis Rheum 58(5): 1284-1292. OBJECTIVE: Several microRNA, which are approximately 22-nucleotide noncoding RNAs, exhibit tissue-specific or developmental stage-specific expression patterns and are associated with human diseases. The objective of this study was to identify the expression pattern of microRNA-146 (miR-146) in synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: The expression of miR-146 in synovial tissue from 5 patients with RA, 5 patients with osteoarthritis (OA), and 1 normal subject was analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry of tissue sections. Induction of miR-146 following stimulation with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) of cultures of human rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) was examined by quantitative PCR and RT-PCR. RESULTS: Mature miR-146a and primary miR-146a/b were highly expressed in RA synovial tissue, which also expressed TNFalpha, but the 2 microRNA were less highly expressed in OA and normal synovial tissue. In situ hybridization showed primary miR-146a expression in cells of the superficial and sublining layers in synovial tissue from RA patients. Cells positive for miR-146a were primarily CD68+ macrophages, but included several CD3+ T cell subsets and CD79a+ B cells. Expression of miR-146a/b was markedly up-regulated in RASFs after stimulation with TNFalpha and IL-1beta. CONCLUSION: This study shows that miR-146 is expressed in RA synovial tissue and that its expression is induced by stimulation with TNFalpha and IL-1beta. Further studies are required to elucidate the function of miR-146 in these tissues.. OBJECTIVE: Several microRNA, which are approximately 22-nucleotide noncoding RNAs, exhibit tissue-specific or developmental stage-specific expression patterns and are associated with human diseases. The objective of this study was to identify the expression pattern of microRNA-146 (miR-146) in synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: The expression of miR-146 in synovial tissue from 5 patients with RA, 5 patients with osteoarthritis (OA), and 1 normal subject was analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry of tissue sections. Induction of miR-146 following stimulation with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) of cultures of human rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) was examined by quantitative PCR and RT-PCR. RESULTS: Mature miR-146a and primary miR-146a/b were highly expressed in RA synovial tissue, which also expressed TNFalpha, but the 2 microRNA were less highly expressed in OA and normal synovial tissue. In situ hybridization showed primary miR-146a expression in cells of the superficial and sublining layers in synovial tissue from RA patients. Cells positive for miR-146a were primarily CD68+ macrophages, but included several CD3+ T cell subsets and CD79a+ B cells. Expression of miR-146a/b was markedly up-regulated in RASFs after stimulation with TNFalpha and IL-1beta. CONCLUSION: This study shows that miR-146 is expressed in RA synovial tissue and that its expression is induced by stimulation with TNFalpha and IL-1beta. Further studies are required to elucidate the function of miR-146 in these tissues.

Nakasa, T., Y. Nagata, et al. (2011). "A mini-review: microRNA in arthritis." Physiol Genomics 43(10): 566-570. MicroRNA (miRNA) is a class of noncoding RNA that exhibits tissue- or developmental stage-specific expression patterns and negatively regulates gene expression. MiRNAs play an important role in human diseases, including osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). OA is characterized by the progressive destruction of articular cartilage, and several miRNAs exhibit altered expression, playing a role in regulating gene expression in OA pathogenesis, especially in catabolic factors such as matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) and aggrecanases. RA is an autoimmune disease that is characterized by irreversible joint destruction due to chronic synovial inflammation. MiRNAs play an important role in inflammatory response, synovial cell proliferation, and production of MMPs in RA synovial tissues. The expression level of several miRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells correlates with RA disease activity. Recently, therapeutic trials aimed at targeting miRNA in vivo have been conducted. Targeting miRNA will enable a new advanced strategy toward arthritis treatment.. MicroRNA (miRNA) is a class of noncoding RNA that exhibits tissue- or developmental stage-specific expression patterns and negatively regulates gene expression. MiRNAs play an important role in human diseases, including osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). OA is characterized by the progressive destruction of articular cartilage, and several miRNAs exhibit altered expression, playing a role in regulating gene expression in OA pathogenesis, especially in catabolic factors such as matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) and aggrecanases. RA is an autoimmune disease that is characterized by irreversible joint destruction due to chronic synovial inflammation. MiRNAs play an important role in inflammatory response, synovial cell proliferation, and production of MMPs in RA synovial tissues. The expression level of several miRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells correlates with RA disease activity. Recently, therapeutic trials aimed at targeting miRNA in vivo have been conducted. Targeting miRNA will enable a new advanced strategy toward arthritis treatment.

Nakasa, T., H. Shibuya, et al. (2011). "The inhibitory effect of microRNA-146a expression on bone destruction in collagen-induced arthritis." Arthritis Rheum 63(6): 1582-1590. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA, a class of noncoding RNA, play a role in human diseases. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) is a negative regulator of immune and inflammatory responses, and is strongly expressed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovium and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). This study was undertaken to examine whether miR-146a expression inhibits osteoclastogenesis, and whether administration of miR-146a prevents joint destruction in mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). METHODS: PBMCs from healthy volunteers were isolated and seeded in culture plates. The following day, double-stranded miR-146a was transfected and cultured in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor and either tumor necrosis factor alpha or RANKL. After 3 weeks, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-positive multinucleated cells were counted. Three days after miR-146a culture, the expression of c-Jun, nuclear factor of activated T cells c1 (NF-ATc1), PU.1, and TRAP was evaluated by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. After the onset of distinct arthritis in mice with CIA, double-stranded miR-146a or nonspecific double-stranded RNA was administered twice by intravenous injection. Radiographic and histologic examinations were performed at 4 weeks. RESULTS: The number of TRAP-positive multinucleated cells in human PBMCs was significantly reduced by miR-146a in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of c-Jun, NF-ATc1, PU.1, and TRAP in PBMCs was significantly down-regulated by miR-146a. Administration of miR-146a prevented joint destruction in mice with CIA, although it did not completely ameliorate inflammation. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that expression of miR-146a inhibits osteoclastogenesis and that administration of double-stranded miR-146a prevents joint destruction in arthritic mice. Administration of miR-146a has potential as a novel therapeutic target for bone destruction in RA.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA, a class of noncoding RNA, play a role in human diseases. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) is a negative regulator of immune and inflammatory responses, and is strongly expressed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovium and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). This study was undertaken to examine whether miR-146a expression inhibits osteoclastogenesis, and whether administration of miR-146a prevents joint destruction in mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). METHODS: PBMCs from healthy volunteers were isolated and seeded in culture plates. The following day, double-stranded miR-146a was transfected and cultured in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor and either tumor necrosis factor alpha or RANKL. After 3 weeks, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-positive multinucleated cells were counted. Three days after miR-146a culture, the expression of c-Jun, nuclear factor of activated T cells c1 (NF-ATc1), PU.1, and TRAP was evaluated by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. After the onset of distinct arthritis in mice with CIA, double-stranded miR-146a or nonspecific double-stranded RNA was administered twice by intravenous injection. Radiographic and histologic examinations were performed at 4 weeks. RESULTS: The number of TRAP-positive multinucleated cells in human PBMCs was significantly reduced by miR-146a in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of c-Jun, NF-ATc1, PU.1, and TRAP in PBMCs was significantly down-regulated by miR-146a. Administration of miR-146a prevented joint destruction in mice with CIA, although it did not completely ameliorate inflammation. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that expression of miR-146a inhibits osteoclastogenesis and that administration of double-stranded miR-146a prevents joint destruction in arthritic mice. Administration of miR-146a has potential as a novel therapeutic target for bone destruction in RA.

Niederer, F., M. Trenkmann, et al. (2012). "Down-regulation of microRNA-34a* in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts promotes apoptosis resistance." Arthritis Rheum 64(6): 1771-1779. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression and effect of the microRNA-34 (miR-34) family on apoptosis in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: Expression of the miR-34 family in synovial fibroblasts with or without stimulation with Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), hypoxia, or 5-azacytidine was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Promoter methylation was studied by combined bisulfite restriction analysis. The effects of overexpression and silencing of miR-34a and miR-34a* on apoptosis were analyzed by annexin V/propidium iodide staining. Production of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) was assessed by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry analysis. Reporter gene assay was used to study the signaling pathways of miR-34a*. RESULTS: Basal expression levels of miR-34a* were found to be reduced in synovial fibroblasts from RA patients compared to osteoarthritis patients, whereas levels of miR-34a, miR-34b/b*, and miR-34c/c* did not differ. Neither TNFalpha, IL-1beta, TLR ligands, nor hypoxia altered miR-34a* expression. However, we demonstrated that the promoter of miR-34a/34a* was methylated and showed that transcription of the miR-34a duplex was induced upon treatment with demethylating agents. Enforced expression of miR-34a* led to an increased rate of FasL- and TRAIL-mediated apoptosis in RASFs. Moreover, levels of miR-34a* were highly correlated with expression of XIAP, which was found to be up-regulated in RA synovial cells. Finally, we identified XIAP as a direct target of miR-34a*. CONCLUSION: Our data provide evidence of a methylation-specific down-regulation of proapoptotic miR-34a* in RASFs. Decreased expression of miR- 34a* results in up-regulation of its direct target XIAP, thereby contributing to resistance of RASFs to apoptosis.. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression and effect of the microRNA-34 (miR-34) family on apoptosis in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: Expression of the miR-34 family in synovial fibroblasts with or without stimulation with Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), hypoxia, or 5-azacytidine was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Promoter methylation was studied by combined bisulfite restriction analysis. The effects of overexpression and silencing of miR-34a and miR-34a* on apoptosis were analyzed by annexin V/propidium iodide staining. Production of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) was assessed by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry analysis. Reporter gene assay was used to study the signaling pathways of miR-34a*. RESULTS: Basal expression levels of miR-34a* were found to be reduced in synovial fibroblasts from RA patients compared to osteoarthritis patients, whereas levels of miR-34a, miR-34b/b*, and miR-34c/c* did not differ. Neither TNFalpha, IL-1beta, TLR ligands, nor hypoxia altered miR-34a* expression. However, we demonstrated that the promoter of miR-34a/34a* was methylated and showed that transcription of the miR-34a duplex was induced upon treatment with demethylating agents. Enforced expression of miR-34a* led to an increased rate of FasL- and TRAIL-mediated apoptosis in RASFs. Moreover, levels of miR-34a* were highly correlated with expression of XIAP, which was found to be up-regulated in RA synovial cells. Finally, we identified XIAP as a direct target of miR-34a*. CONCLUSION: Our data provide evidence of a methylation-specific down-regulation of proapoptotic miR-34a* in RASFs. Decreased expression of miR- 34a* results in up-regulation of its direct target XIAP, thereby contributing to resistance of RASFs to apoptosis.

Niimoto, T., T. Nakasa, et al. (2010). "MicroRNA-146a expresses in interleukin-17 producing T cells in rheumatoid arthritis patients." BMC Musculoskelet Disord 11: 209. BACKGROUND: Interleukin (IL)-17 is an important factor in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis. MicroRNA (miRNA)s are a family of non coding RNAs and associated with human diseases including RA. The purpose of this study is to identify the miRNAs in the differentiation of IL-17 producing cells, and analyze their expression pattern in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and synovium from RA patients. METHODS: IL-17 producing cells were expanded from CD4+T cell. MiRNA microarray was performed to identify the miRNAs in the differentiation of IL-17 producing cells. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed to examine the expression patterns of the identified miRNAs in the PBMC and synovium from RA and osteoarthritis (OA) patients. Double staining combining in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry of IL-17 was performed to analyze the expression pattern of identified miRNA in the synovium. RESULTS: Six miRNAs, let-7a, miR-26, miR-146a/b, miR-150, and miR-155 were significantly up regulated in the IL-17 producing T cells. The expression of miR-146a and IL-17 was higher than in PBMC in the patients with low score of Larsen grade and short disease duration. MiR-146a intensely expressed in RA synovium in comparison to OA. MiR-146a expressed intensely in the synovium with hyperplasia and high expression of IL-17 from the patients with high disease activity. Double staining revealed that miR-146a expressed in IL-17 expressing cells. CONCLUSION: These results indicated that miR-146a was associated with IL-17 expression in the PBMC and synovium in RA patients. There is the possibility that miR-146a participates in the IL-17 expression.. BACKGROUND: Interleukin (IL)-17 is an important factor in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis. MicroRNA (miRNA)s are a family of non coding RNAs and associated with human diseases including RA. The purpose of this study is to identify the miRNAs in the differentiation of IL-17 producing cells, and analyze their expression pattern in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and synovium from RA patients. METHODS: IL-17 producing cells were expanded from CD4+T cell. MiRNA microarray was performed to identify the miRNAs in the differentiation of IL-17 producing cells. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed to examine the expression patterns of the identified miRNAs in the PBMC and synovium from RA and osteoarthritis (OA) patients. Double staining combining in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry of IL-17 was performed to analyze the expression pattern of identified miRNA in the synovium. RESULTS: Six miRNAs, let-7a, miR-26, miR-146a/b, miR-150, and miR-155 were significantly up regulated in the IL-17 producing T cells. The expression of miR-146a and IL-17 was higher than in PBMC in the patients with low score of Larsen grade and short disease duration. MiR-146a intensely expressed in RA synovium in comparison to OA. MiR-146a expressed intensely in the synovium with hyperplasia and high expression of IL-17 from the patients with high disease activity. Double staining revealed that miR-146a expressed in IL-17 expressing cells. CONCLUSION: These results indicated that miR-146a was associated with IL-17 expression in the PBMC and synovium in RA patients. There is the possibility that miR-146a participates in the IL-17 expression.

Ogando, J., M. Tardaguila, et al. (2016). "Notch-regulated miR-223 targets the aryl hydrocarbon receptor pathway and increases cytokine production in macrophages from rheumatoid arthritis patients." Sci Rep 6: 20223. Evidence links aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) activation to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis, although results are inconsistent. AHR agonists inhibit pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in macrophages, pivotal cells in RA aetiopathogenesis, which hints at specific circuits that regulate the AHR pathway in RA macrophages. We compared microRNA (miR) expression in CD14(+) cells from patients with active RA or with osteoarthritis (OA). Seven miR were downregulated and one (miR-223) upregulated in RA compared to OA cells. miR-223 upregulation correlated with reduced Notch3 and Notch effector expression in RA patients. Overexpression of the Notch-induced repressor HEY-1 and co-culture of healthy donor monocytes with Notch ligand-expressing cells showed direct Notch-mediated downregulation of miR-223. Bioinformatics predicted the AHR regulator ARNT (AHR nuclear translocator) as a miR-223 target. Pre-miR-223 overexpression silenced ARNT 3'UTR-driven reporter expression, reduced ARNT (but not AHR) protein levels and prevented AHR/ARNT-mediated inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. miR-223 counteracted AHR/ARNT-induced Notch3 upregulation in monocytes. Levels of ARNT and of CYP1B1, an AHR/ARNT signalling effector, were reduced in RA compared to OA synovial tissue, which correlated with miR-223 levels. Our results associate Notch signalling to miR-223 downregulation in RA macrophages, and identify miR-223 as a negative regulator of the AHR/ARNT pathway through ARNT targeting.. Evidence links aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) activation to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis, although results are inconsistent. AHR agonists inhibit pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in macrophages, pivotal cells in RA aetiopathogenesis, which hints at specific circuits that regulate the AHR pathway in RA macrophages. We compared microRNA (miR) expression in CD14(+) cells from patients with active RA or with osteoarthritis (OA). Seven miR were downregulated and one (miR-223) upregulated in RA compared to OA cells. miR-223 upregulation correlated with reduced Notch3 and Notch effector expression in RA patients. Overexpression of the Notch-induced repressor HEY-1 and co-culture of healthy donor monocytes with Notch ligand-expressing cells showed direct Notch-mediated downregulation of miR-223. Bioinformatics predicted the AHR regulator ARNT (AHR nuclear translocator) as a miR-223 target. Pre-miR-223 overexpression silenced ARNT 3'UTR-driven reporter expression, reduced ARNT (but not AHR) protein levels and prevented AHR/ARNT-mediated inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. miR-223 counteracted AHR/ARNT-induced Notch3 upregulation in monocytes. Levels of ARNT and of CYP1B1, an AHR/ARNT signalling effector, were reduced in RA compared to OA synovial tissue, which correlated with miR-223 levels. Our results associate Notch signalling to miR-223 downregulation in RA macrophages, and identify miR-223 as a negative regulator of the AHR/ARNT pathway through ARNT targeting.

Okada, Y., T. Kishikawa, et al. (2017). "Future Directions of Genomics Research in Rheumatic Diseases." Rheum Dis Clin North Am 43(3): 481-487. Recent developments in human genome genotyping and sequencing technologies, such as genome-wide association studies and whole-genome sequencing analyses, have successfully identified several risk genes of rheumatic diseases. Fine-mapping studies using the HLA imputation method revealed that classical and non-classical HLA genes contribute to the risk of rheumatic diseases. Integration of human disease genomics with biological, medical, and clinical databases should contribute to the elucidation of disease pathogenicity and novel drug discovery. Disease risk genes identified by large-scale genetic studies are considered to be promising resources for novel drug discovery, including drug repositioning and biomarker microRNA screening for rheumatoid arthritis.. Recent developments in human genome genotyping and sequencing technologies, such as genome-wide association studies and whole-genome sequencing analyses, have successfully identified several risk genes of rheumatic diseases. Fine-mapping studies using the HLA imputation method revealed that classical and non-classical HLA genes contribute to the risk of rheumatic diseases. Integration of human disease genomics with biological, medical, and clinical databases should contribute to the elucidation of disease pathogenicity and novel drug discovery. Disease risk genes identified by large-scale genetic studies are considered to be promising resources for novel drug discovery, including drug repositioning and biomarker microRNA screening for rheumatoid arthritis.

Okada, Y., T. Muramatsu, et al. (2016). "Significant impact of miRNA-target gene networks on genetics of human complex traits." Sci Rep 6: 22223. The impact of microRNA (miRNA) on the genetics of human complex traits, especially in the context of miRNA-target gene networks, has not been fully assessed. Here, we developed a novel analytical method, MIGWAS, to comprehensively evaluate enrichment of genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals in miRNA-target gene networks. We applied the method to the GWAS results of the 18 human complex traits from >1.75 million subjects, and identified significant enrichment in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), kidney function, and adult height (P < 0.05/18 = 0.0028, most significant enrichment in RA with P = 1.7 x 10(-4)). Interestingly, these results were consistent with current literature-based knowledge of the traits on miRNA obtained through the NCBI PubMed database search (adjusted P = 0.024). Our method provided a list of miRNA and target gene pairs with excess genetic association signals, part of which included drug target genes. We identified a miRNA (miR-4728-5p) that downregulates PADI2, a novel RA risk gene considered as a promising therapeutic target (rs761426, adjusted P = 2.3 x 10(-9)). Our study indicated the significant impact of miRNA-target gene networks on the genetics of human complex traits, and provided resources which should contribute to drug discovery and nucleic acid medicine.. The impact of microRNA (miRNA) on the genetics of human complex traits, especially in the context of miRNA-target gene networks, has not been fully assessed. Here, we developed a novel analytical method, MIGWAS, to comprehensively evaluate enrichment of genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals in miRNA-target gene networks. We applied the method to the GWAS results of the 18 human complex traits from >1.75 million subjects, and identified significant enrichment in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), kidney function, and adult height (P < 0.05/18 = 0.0028, most significant enrichment in RA with P = 1.7 x 10(-4)). Interestingly, these results were consistent with current literature-based knowledge of the traits on miRNA obtained through the NCBI PubMed database search (adjusted P = 0.024). Our method provided a list of miRNA and target gene pairs with excess genetic association signals, part of which included drug target genes. We identified a miRNA (miR-4728-5p) that downregulates PADI2, a novel RA risk gene considered as a promising therapeutic target (rs761426, adjusted P = 2.3 x 10(-9)). Our study indicated the significant impact of miRNA-target gene networks on the genetics of human complex traits, and provided resources which should contribute to drug discovery and nucleic acid medicine.

Olumuyiwa-Akeredolu, O. O. and E. Pretorius (2016). "Rheumatoid Arthritis: Notable Biomarkers Linking to Chronic Systemic Conditions and Cancer." Curr Pharm Des 22(7): 918-924. Adult rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disorder affecting joints and frequently characterised by initial local and later systemic inflammation. Researchers have, for many years, traced its cause to diverse genetic, environmental and especially immunological responses that work against the body's own cells and tissues. Investigation into several of these biomarkers reveals interconnections that exist between multiple factors, which ultimately lead to specific pathologies. The goal of this paper is to highlight connections present between the major biological players long identified by researchers including more recently uncovered biomarkers in the RA repertoire and some of the pathophysiologies typically affiliated with the disease. Biomarkers reviewed, and becoming more clearly defined for RA include genetic, cytokines like tumor-necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), lymphocytes, nuclear antigens, antibodies to citrullinated peptides (anti-CPs), acute-phase proteins (APPs), microRNA, S100 proteins, platelets and erythrocytes. Some of the disease manifestations that have been connected are bone erosion, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, anemia, synovitis, felty's syndrome, extra-articular manifestations (EAMs) such as atherosclerosis, rheumatoid nodules and cardiovascular (CV) events. Several RA markers associated with malignancy have been identified in literature although there is insufficient evidence of cancer in patients. Due to the complex nature of the disease, the appearance of symptoms and markers vary amongst individuals and the connections may manifest only in part. This manuscript addresses defining factors relevant to rapid identification of pathological influences these biomolecules could exert and to the management of the disease. Each of these biological players may have its place in connecting to symptomatic pathologies and help to highlight potential targets for therapy.. Adult rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disorder affecting joints and frequently characterised by initial local and later systemic inflammation. Researchers have, for many years, traced its cause to diverse genetic, environmental and especially immunological responses that work against the body's own cells and tissues. Investigation into several of these biomarkers reveals interconnections that exist between multiple factors, which ultimately lead to specific pathologies. The goal of this paper is to highlight connections present between the major biological players long identified by researchers including more recently uncovered biomarkers in the RA repertoire and some of the pathophysiologies typically affiliated with the disease. Biomarkers reviewed, and becoming more clearly defined for RA include genetic, cytokines like tumor-necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), lymphocytes, nuclear antigens, antibodies to citrullinated peptides (anti-CPs), acute-phase proteins (APPs), microRNA, S100 proteins, platelets and erythrocytes. Some of the disease manifestations that have been connected are bone erosion, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, anemia, synovitis, felty's syndrome, extra-articular manifestations (EAMs) such as atherosclerosis, rheumatoid nodules and cardiovascular (CV) events. Several RA markers associated with malignancy have been identified in literature although there is insufficient evidence of cancer in patients. Due to the complex nature of the disease, the appearance of symptoms and markers vary amongst individuals and the connections may manifest only in part. This manuscript addresses defining factors relevant to rapid identification of pathological influences these biomolecules could exert and to the management of the disease. Each of these biological players may have its place in connecting to symptomatic pathologies and help to highlight potential targets for therapy.

Ormseth, M. J., J. F. Solus, et al. (2015). "Utility of Select Plasma MicroRNA for Disease and Cardiovascular Risk Assessment in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis." J Rheumatol 42(10): 1746-1751. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miRNA) are small noncoding RNA that posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression and serve as potential mediators and markers of disease. Recently, plasma miR-24-3p and miR-125a-5p concentrations were shown to be elevated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and useful for RA diagnosis. We assessed the utility of 7 candidate plasma miRNA, selected for biological relevance, for RA diagnosis and use as markers of disease activity and subclinical atherosclerosis in RA. METHODS: The cross-sectional study included 168 patients with RA and 91 control subjects of similar age, race, and sex. Plasma concentrations of miR-15a-5p, miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, miR-125a-5p, miR-146a-5p, miR-155-5p, and miR-223-3p were measured by quantitative PCR. Utility of plasma miRNA concentrations for RA diagnosis was assessed by area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUROC). Associations between plasma miRNA concentrations and RA disease activity and coronary artery calcium score were assessed by Spearman correlations. RESULTS: Plasma concentrations of miR-15a-5p, miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, miR-125a-5p, miR-146a-5p, miR-155-5p, and miR-223-3p were significantly increased in patients with RA. The highest AUROC for diagnosis of RA (AUROC = 0.725) was found in miR-24-3p, including among rheumatoid factor-negative patients (AUROC = 0.772). Among all patients with RA, the combination of miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, and miR-125a-5p improved the model modestly (AUROC = 0.747). One miRNA, miR-155-5p, was weakly inversely associated with swollen joint count (p = 0.024), but no other miRNA were associated with disease activity or coronary artery calcium score. CONCLUSION: The combination of miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, and miR-125a-5p had the strongest diagnostic accuracy for RA. Candidate miRNA had little or no association with RA disease activity or subclinical atherosclerosis.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miRNA) are small noncoding RNA that posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression and serve as potential mediators and markers of disease. Recently, plasma miR-24-3p and miR-125a-5p concentrations were shown to be elevated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and useful for RA diagnosis. We assessed the utility of 7 candidate plasma miRNA, selected for biological relevance, for RA diagnosis and use as markers of disease activity and subclinical atherosclerosis in RA. METHODS: The cross-sectional study included 168 patients with RA and 91 control subjects of similar age, race, and sex. Plasma concentrations of miR-15a-5p, miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, miR-125a-5p, miR-146a-5p, miR-155-5p, and miR-223-3p were measured by quantitative PCR. Utility of plasma miRNA concentrations for RA diagnosis was assessed by area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUROC). Associations between plasma miRNA concentrations and RA disease activity and coronary artery calcium score were assessed by Spearman correlations. RESULTS: Plasma concentrations of miR-15a-5p, miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, miR-125a-5p, miR-146a-5p, miR-155-5p, and miR-223-3p were significantly increased in patients with RA. The highest AUROC for diagnosis of RA (AUROC = 0.725) was found in miR-24-3p, including among rheumatoid factor-negative patients (AUROC = 0.772). Among all patients with RA, the combination of miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, and miR-125a-5p improved the model modestly (AUROC = 0.747). One miRNA, miR-155-5p, was weakly inversely associated with swollen joint count (p = 0.024), but no other miRNA were associated with disease activity or coronary artery calcium score. CONCLUSION: The combination of miR-24-3p, miR-26a-5p, and miR-125a-5p had the strongest diagnostic accuracy for RA. Candidate miRNA had little or no association with RA disease activity or subclinical atherosclerosis.

Ospelt, C. (2016). "Epigenetic biomarkers in rheumatology - the future?" Swiss Med Wkly 146: w14312. Epigenetic changes are stable modifications of DNA or histones that profoundly alter gene expression. They can be changed by environmental influences and can then be passed on to daughter cells or via the germ line to offspring. A variety of changes in epigenetic marks and in the expression of noncoding RNA has been found in cancer as well as in chronic inflammatory diseases. Interestingly, in both diseases similar mechanisms and pathways are affected albeit often to a different extent. DNA methylation is often lost in repetitive sequences, while in promoter regions hypo- as well as hypermethylation is found. Changes in microRNA levels typically affect microRNAs that are changed by an inflammatory environment, but disease specific changes have also been found in the blood and various cell types of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and other rheumatic diseases. Therefore, changes in the expression of microRNA in particular, but also demethylated gene loci, have been proposed as potential biomarkers in chronic inflammatory diseases and in cancer. Potentially, these changes could be used for early diagnosis and also to predict treatment response. Unfortunately most studies in rheumatology up to now were not designed to validate these epigenetic changes as biomarkers. Since the cancer field is much more advanced in the usage of biomarkers for disease subclassifications and subsequent therapeutic decisions, it is worthwhile to take a closer look at the biomarkers, methods and procedures used in oncology and to see which of these could also be applied to predicting disease severity and therapeutic response in rheumatic diseases. This article will highlight common epigenetic pathways activated in cancer and various rheumatic diseases and summarise epigenetic changes that have the potential to become biomarkers in rheumatic diseases.. Epigenetic changes are stable modifications of DNA or histones that profoundly alter gene expression. They can be changed by environmental influences and can then be passed on to daughter cells or via the germ line to offspring. A variety of changes in epigenetic marks and in the expression of noncoding RNA has been found in cancer as well as in chronic inflammatory diseases. Interestingly, in both diseases similar mechanisms and pathways are affected albeit often to a different extent. DNA methylation is often lost in repetitive sequences, while in promoter regions hypo- as well as hypermethylation is found. Changes in microRNA levels typically affect microRNAs that are changed by an inflammatory environment, but disease specific changes have also been found in the blood and various cell types of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and other rheumatic diseases. Therefore, changes in the expression of microRNA in particular, but also demethylated gene loci, have been proposed as potential biomarkers in chronic inflammatory diseases and in cancer. Potentially, these changes could be used for early diagnosis and also to predict treatment response. Unfortunately most studies in rheumatology up to now were not designed to validate these epigenetic changes as biomarkers. Since the cancer field is much more advanced in the usage of biomarkers for disease subclassifications and subsequent therapeutic decisions, it is worthwhile to take a closer look at the biomarkers, methods and procedures used in oncology and to see which of these could also be applied to predicting disease severity and therapeutic response in rheumatic diseases. This article will highlight common epigenetic pathways activated in cancer and various rheumatic diseases and summarise epigenetic changes that have the potential to become biomarkers in rheumatic diseases.

Ospelt, C., S. Gay, et al. (2017). "Epigenetics in the pathogenesis of RA." Semin Immunopathol 39(4): 409-419. Epigenetic modifications can stably alter gene expression and have been shown to be important in the maintenance of cell type-specific functions as well as in cell differentiation, e.g., in T and B cell maturation. In RA, alterations in DNA methylation, histone modifications, and microRNA expression have been found in immune as well as in stromal cells. These changes in the epigenome in RA patients influence key inflammatory and matrix-degrading pathways and are suspected to play a major role in the pathogenesis of RA. In this manuscript, we explain the basic mechanisms of epigenetics, review studies that analyzed epigenetic changes in RA, and assess their potential as therapeutic targets.. Epigenetic modifications can stably alter gene expression and have been shown to be important in the maintenance of cell type-specific functions as well as in cell differentiation, e.g., in T and B cell maturation. In RA, alterations in DNA methylation, histone modifications, and microRNA expression have been found in immune as well as in stromal cells. These changes in the epigenome in RA patients influence key inflammatory and matrix-degrading pathways and are suspected to play a major role in the pathogenesis of RA. In this manuscript, we explain the basic mechanisms of epigenetics, review studies that analyzed epigenetic changes in RA, and assess their potential as therapeutic targets.

Ouboussad, L., L. Hunt, et al. (2017). "Profiling microRNAs in individuals at risk of progression to rheumatoid arthritis." Arthritis Res Ther 19(1): 288. BACKGROUND: Individuals at risk of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) demonstrate systemic autoimmunity in the form of anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies (ACPA). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are implicated in established RA. This study aimed to (1) compare miRNA expression between healthy individuals and those at risk of and those that develop RA, (2) evaluate the change in expression of miRNA from "at-risk" to early RA and (3) explore whether these miRNAs could inform a signature predictive of progression from "at-risk" to RA. METHODS: We performed global profiling of 754 miRNAs per patient on a matched serum sample cohort of 12 anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP) + "at-risk" individuals that progressed to RA. Each individual had a serum sample from baseline and at time of detection of synovitis, forming the matched element. Healthy controls were also studied. miRNAs with a fold difference/fold change of four in expression level met our primary criterion for selection as candidate miRNAs. Validation of the miRNAs of interest was conducted using custom miRNA array cards on matched samples (baseline and follow up) in 24 CCP+ individuals; 12 RA progressors and 12 RA non-progressors. RESULTS: We report on the first study to use matched serum samples and a comprehensive miRNA array approach to identify in particular, three miRNAs (miR-22, miR-486-3p, and miR-382) associated with progression from systemic autoimmunity to RA inflammation. MiR-22 demonstrated significant fold difference between progressors and non-progressors indicating a potential biomarker role for at-risk individuals. CONCLUSIONS: This first study using a cohort with matched serum samples provides important mechanistic insights in the transition from systemic autoimmunity to inflammatory disease for future investigation, and with further evaluation, might also serve as a predictive biomarker.. BACKGROUND: Individuals at risk of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) demonstrate systemic autoimmunity in the form of anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies (ACPA). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are implicated in established RA. This study aimed to (1) compare miRNA expression between healthy individuals and those at risk of and those that develop RA, (2) evaluate the change in expression of miRNA from "at-risk" to early RA and (3) explore whether these miRNAs could inform a signature predictive of progression from "at-risk" to RA. METHODS: We performed global profiling of 754 miRNAs per patient on a matched serum sample cohort of 12 anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP) + "at-risk" individuals that progressed to RA. Each individual had a serum sample from baseline and at time of detection of synovitis, forming the matched element. Healthy controls were also studied. miRNAs with a fold difference/fold change of four in expression level met our primary criterion for selection as candidate miRNAs. Validation of the miRNAs of interest was conducted using custom miRNA array cards on matched samples (baseline and follow up) in 24 CCP+ individuals; 12 RA progressors and 12 RA non-progressors. RESULTS: We report on the first study to use matched serum samples and a comprehensive miRNA array approach to identify in particular, three miRNAs (miR-22, miR-486-3p, and miR-382) associated with progression from systemic autoimmunity to RA inflammation. MiR-22 demonstrated significant fold difference between progressors and non-progressors indicating a potential biomarker role for at-risk individuals. CONCLUSIONS: This first study using a cohort with matched serum samples provides important mechanistic insights in the transition from systemic autoimmunity to inflammatory disease for future investigation, and with further evaluation, might also serve as a predictive biomarker.

Ouhara, K., I. J. Savitri, et al. (2014). "miR-584 expressed in human gingival epithelial cells is induced by Porphyromonas gingivalis stimulation and regulates interleukin-8 production via lactoferrin receptor." J Periodontol 85(6): e198-204. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, non-coding RNAs that are involved in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Differential miRNA expression in innate and acquired immunity has been shown to regulate immune cell development and function. miRNA expression has been demonstrated to affect pathophysiology of inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. As such, this study explores the role of miRNA in the context of pathophysiology of destructive periodontitis. Specifically, this investigation profiles the differentially expressed miRNA of Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg)-stimulated human gingival epithelial cells (HGECs). METHODS: The specific miRNAs differentially expressed in Pg-stimulated OBA-9, immortalized HGECs, were analyzed using microarray. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blotting were performed to confirm the level of miRNA expression and determine target production of miRNA in OBA-9. The production of interleukin (IL)-8 was measured to determine the bioactivity of target protein regulated by miRNA. RESULTS: miR-584, which targets lactoferrin receptor (LfR), was 3.39-fold upregulated by Pg stimulation. This upregulation of miR-584 was confirmed by real-time PCR. Pg stimulation resulted in the suppression of LfR at mRNA and protein levels. The transfection of the miR inhibitor for miR-584 in OBA-9 recovered Pg-induced suppression of LfR. The addition of human lactoferrin (hLf) had a suppressive effect on IL-8 production in Pg-stimulated OBA-9. However, hLf also decreased IL-8 production strongly in Pg-stimulated OBA-9 in the presence of the miR inhibitor for miR-584. CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the upregulation of miR-584 by Pg in OBA-9 inhibits the anti-inflammatory effects of hLf via the suppression of LfR.. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, non-coding RNAs that are involved in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Differential miRNA expression in innate and acquired immunity has been shown to regulate immune cell development and function. miRNA expression has been demonstrated to affect pathophysiology of inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. As such, this study explores the role of miRNA in the context of pathophysiology of destructive periodontitis. Specifically, this investigation profiles the differentially expressed miRNA of Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg)-stimulated human gingival epithelial cells (HGECs). METHODS: The specific miRNAs differentially expressed in Pg-stimulated OBA-9, immortalized HGECs, were analyzed using microarray. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blotting were performed to confirm the level of miRNA expression and determine target production of miRNA in OBA-9. The production of interleukin (IL)-8 was measured to determine the bioactivity of target protein regulated by miRNA. RESULTS: miR-584, which targets lactoferrin receptor (LfR), was 3.39-fold upregulated by Pg stimulation. This upregulation of miR-584 was confirmed by real-time PCR. Pg stimulation resulted in the suppression of LfR at mRNA and protein levels. The transfection of the miR inhibitor for miR-584 in OBA-9 recovered Pg-induced suppression of LfR. The addition of human lactoferrin (hLf) had a suppressive effect on IL-8 production in Pg-stimulated OBA-9. However, hLf also decreased IL-8 production strongly in Pg-stimulated OBA-9 in the presence of the miR inhibitor for miR-584. CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the upregulation of miR-584 by Pg in OBA-9 inhibits the anti-inflammatory effects of hLf via the suppression of LfR.

Pan, F., H. Xiang, et al. (2017). "Dendritic Cells from Rheumatoid Arthritis Patient Peripheral Blood Induce Th17 Cell Differentiation via miR-363/Integrin alphav/TGF-beta Axis." Scand J Immunol 85(6): 441-449. Dendritic cells (DCs) are critical regulators of immune responses. This study was to observe the effect of DCs from peripheral blood on the differentiation of Th17 in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Peripheral blood samples were collected from 30 patients with RA and 20 healthy controls, respectively. Flow cytometry results showed that in contrast to Treg cells, the proportion of Th17 cells in T cells and the Th17/Treg ratio were both increased in patients with RA. The RT-PCR results showed that Foxp3ROR gammat and miR-363 expression in PBMC of patients with RA were reduced, but the ITGAV expression was increased, which was negatively related to miR-363 expression. IL-17, TGF-beta and IL-6 levels detected by ELISA were increased in peripheral blood serum of patients with RA. Moreover, we noted that the CD11C(+) alphanu(+) /CD11C(+) DCs ratio was obvious increased in patients with RA and has positive correlation to the Th17/Treg ratio. In cocultured system, Th17 cell differentiation was significantly inhibited in the presence of ITGF-beta suggesting that Th17 cell differentiation was controlled by active TGF-beta (aTGF-beta). After DCs transfecting with miR-363 mimics and cocultured with T cells, Th17 cell number, IL-17 level and ROR-gammat expression were significantly reduced in the presence of latent TGF-beta (ITGF-beta). In addition, the integrin alphav protein expression was both reduced in the presence of aTGF-beta or ITGF-beta. These data demonstrated that DCs induced Th17 cell differentiation through miR-363/Integrin alphav/TGF-beta pathway in patients with RA.. Dendritic cells (DCs) are critical regulators of immune responses. This study was to observe the effect of DCs from peripheral blood on the differentiation of Th17 in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Peripheral blood samples were collected from 30 patients with RA and 20 healthy controls, respectively. Flow cytometry results showed that in contrast to Treg cells, the proportion of Th17 cells in T cells and the Th17/Treg ratio were both increased in patients with RA. The RT-PCR results showed that Foxp3ROR gammat and miR-363 expression in PBMC of patients with RA were reduced, but the ITGAV expression was increased, which was negatively related to miR-363 expression. IL-17, TGF-beta and IL-6 levels detected by ELISA were increased in peripheral blood serum of patients with RA. Moreover, we noted that the CD11C(+) alphanu(+) /CD11C(+) DCs ratio was obvious increased in patients with RA and has positive correlation to the Th17/Treg ratio. In cocultured system, Th17 cell differentiation was significantly inhibited in the presence of ITGF-beta suggesting that Th17 cell differentiation was controlled by active TGF-beta (aTGF-beta). After DCs transfecting with miR-363 mimics and cocultured with T cells, Th17 cell number, IL-17 level and ROR-gammat expression were significantly reduced in the presence of latent TGF-beta (ITGF-beta). In addition, the integrin alphav protein expression was both reduced in the presence of aTGF-beta or ITGF-beta. These data demonstrated that DCs induced Th17 cell differentiation through miR-363/Integrin alphav/TGF-beta pathway in patients with RA.

Panagopoulos, P. K. and G. I. Lambrou (2018). "Bone erosions in rheumatoid arthritis: recent developments in pathogenesis and therapeutic implications." J Musculoskelet Neuronal Interact 18(3): 304-319. Bone erosions develop early in the course of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and deteriorate progressively, causing joint damage and resulting in impaired functional capacity of patients. During the last years, considerable number of studies has increased our understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms mediating the development of bone erosions in RA. Increased production of RANKL and other cytokines, dysregulation of innate immune mechanisms, autoantibodies specific to RA and alterations of microRNA expression stimulate differentiation and function of osteoclasts, which are responsible for the development of bone erosions. Besides, increased levels of cytokines, overproduction of antagonists of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway and deficient production of bone morphogenetic proteins result in impaired osteoblast differentiation and function, undermining the capacity of bone erosions to repair. Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, synthetic or biological, currently used in the treatment of RA, can halt the progression of bone erosions and may even lead to partial repair, although complete repair is unattainable. Targeting pathogenetic mechanisms participating in the erosive process may add to the therapeutic effect of DMARDs and help in the prevention or repair of bone erosions. However, more studies are still needed to confirm whether such therapeutic strategies are effective.. Bone erosions develop early in the course of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and deteriorate progressively, causing joint damage and resulting in impaired functional capacity of patients. During the last years, considerable number of studies has increased our understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms mediating the development of bone erosions in RA. Increased production of RANKL and other cytokines, dysregulation of innate immune mechanisms, autoantibodies specific to RA and alterations of microRNA expression stimulate differentiation and function of osteoclasts, which are responsible for the development of bone erosions. Besides, increased levels of cytokines, overproduction of antagonists of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway and deficient production of bone morphogenetic proteins result in impaired osteoblast differentiation and function, undermining the capacity of bone erosions to repair. Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, synthetic or biological, currently used in the treatment of RA, can halt the progression of bone erosions and may even lead to partial repair, although complete repair is unattainable. Targeting pathogenetic mechanisms participating in the erosive process may add to the therapeutic effect of DMARDs and help in the prevention or repair of bone erosions. However, more studies are still needed to confirm whether such therapeutic strategies are effective.

Pandis, I., C. Ospelt, et al. (2012). "Identification of microRNA-221/222 and microRNA-323-3p association with rheumatoid arthritis via predictions using the human tumour necrosis factor transgenic mouse model." Ann Rheum Dis 71(10): 1716-1723. OBJECTIVE: To identify novel microRNA (miR) associations in synovial fibroblasts (SF), by performing miR expression profiling on cells isolated from the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF) transgenic mouse model (TghuTNF, Tg197) and patients biopsies. METHODS: miR expression in SF from TghuTNF and wild-type (WT) control mice were determined by miR deep sequencing (miR-seq) and the arthritic profile was established by pairwise comparisons. Quantitative PCR analysis was utilised for profile validation, miR and gene quantitation in patient SF. Dysregulated miR target genes and pathways were predicted via bioinformatic algorithms and validated using gain-of-function coupled with reporter assay experiments. RESULTS: miR-seq demonstrated that TghuTNF-SF exhibit a distinct pathogenic profile with 22 significantly upregulated and 30 significantly downregulated miR. Validation assays confirmed the dysregulation of miR-223, miR-146a and miR-155 previously associated with human rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathology, as well as that of miR-221/222 and miR-323-3p. Notably, the latter were also found significantly upregulated in patient RA SF, suggesting for the first time their association with RA pathology. Bioinformatic analysis suggested Wnt/cadherin signalling as a putative pathway target. miR-323-3p overexpression was shown to enhance Wnt pathway activation and decrease the levels of its predicted target beta-transducin repeat containing, an inhibitor of beta-catenin. CONCLUSIONS: Using miR-seq-based profiling in SF from the TghuTNF mouse model and validations in RA patient biopsies, the authors identified miR-221/222 and miR-323-3p as novel dysregulated miR in RA SF. Furthermore, the authors show that miR-323-3p is a positive regulator of WNT/cadherin signalling in RA SF suggesting its potential pathogenic involvement and future use as a therapeutic target in RA.. OBJECTIVE: To identify novel microRNA (miR) associations in synovial fibroblasts (SF), by performing miR expression profiling on cells isolated from the human tumour necrosis factor (TNF) transgenic mouse model (TghuTNF, Tg197) and patients biopsies. METHODS: miR expression in SF from TghuTNF and wild-type (WT) control mice were determined by miR deep sequencing (miR-seq) and the arthritic profile was established by pairwise comparisons. Quantitative PCR analysis was utilised for profile validation, miR and gene quantitation in patient SF. Dysregulated miR target genes and pathways were predicted via bioinformatic algorithms and validated using gain-of-function coupled with reporter assay experiments. RESULTS: miR-seq demonstrated that TghuTNF-SF exhibit a distinct pathogenic profile with 22 significantly upregulated and 30 significantly downregulated miR. Validation assays confirmed the dysregulation of miR-223, miR-146a and miR-155 previously associated with human rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathology, as well as that of miR-221/222 and miR-323-3p. Notably, the latter were also found significantly upregulated in patient RA SF, suggesting for the first time their association with RA pathology. Bioinformatic analysis suggested Wnt/cadherin signalling as a putative pathway target. miR-323-3p overexpression was shown to enhance Wnt pathway activation and decrease the levels of its predicted target beta-transducin repeat containing, an inhibitor of beta-catenin. CONCLUSIONS: Using miR-seq-based profiling in SF from the TghuTNF mouse model and validations in RA patient biopsies, the authors identified miR-221/222 and miR-323-3p as novel dysregulated miR in RA SF. Furthermore, the authors show that miR-323-3p is a positive regulator of WNT/cadherin signalling in RA SF suggesting its potential pathogenic involvement and future use as a therapeutic target in RA.

Paradowska-Gorycka, A. and B. Stypinska (2016). "The role of cell-free circulating microRNA in diagnostics in patients with rheumatoid arthritis." Reumatologia 54(3): 95-96. . 
Parashar, D., M. S. Paingankar, et al. (2018). "Altered microRNA expression signature in Chikungunya-infected mammalian fibroblast cells." Virus GenesChikungunya virus (CHIKV) infection can cause severe arthralgia and chronic arthritis in humans. MicroRNAs (miRNA) have demonstrated their potential use as biomarker in variety of human pathologies and infections. This study was conducted to understand the miRNA signature in early CHIKV infection stages. In the current study, we used TaqMan-based quantitative PCR method to identify the miRNA signature of host response upon CHIKV infection in human and mouse fibroblast cells. The GO enrichment analysis suggests that the putative target genes of these differentially expressed miRNAs are to be involved in RIG-I pathway, TGF-beta-signaling pathway, JAK-STAT-signaling pathway, MAPK-signaling pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, and Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis. The results obtained in the current study and earlier studies indicate the potential use of miR15, miR-16, miR-17, let-7e, miR-125, miR-99, and miR-23a as a biomarker in CHIKV infection. miRNAs such as miR-15a, miR-16, miR-140, miR-146a, miR-155, miR203, miR223, miR-499, and miR-363 which are implicated in rheumatoid arthritis showed differential regulation in CHIKV infection. The data obtained in this study provide valuable information on CHIKV-induced miRNA expression in mammalian fibroblast cells, and suggest that CHIKV may establish infection by regulating miRNA expression profile.. Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) infection can cause severe arthralgia and chronic arthritis in humans. MicroRNAs (miRNA) have demonstrated their potential use as biomarker in variety of human pathologies and infections. This study was conducted to understand the miRNA signature in early CHIKV infection stages. In the current study, we used TaqMan-based quantitative PCR method to identify the miRNA signature of host response upon CHIKV infection in human and mouse fibroblast cells. The GO enrichment analysis suggests that the putative target genes of these differentially expressed miRNAs are to be involved in RIG-I pathway, TGF-beta-signaling pathway, JAK-STAT-signaling pathway, MAPK-signaling pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, and Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis. The results obtained in the current study and earlier studies indicate the potential use of miR15, miR-16, miR-17, let-7e, miR-125, miR-99, and miR-23a as a biomarker in CHIKV infection. miRNAs such as miR-15a, miR-16, miR-140, miR-146a, miR-155, miR203, miR223, miR-499, and miR-363 which are implicated in rheumatoid arthritis showed differential regulation in CHIKV infection. The data obtained in this study provide valuable information on CHIKV-induced miRNA expression in mammalian fibroblast cells, and suggest that CHIKV may establish infection by regulating miRNA expression profile.

Park, H. J., D. H. Kim, et al. (2014). "Insights into the role of follicular helper T cells in autoimmunity." Immune Netw 14(1): 21-29. Follicular helper T (TFH) cells are recently highlighted as their crucial role for humoral immunity to infection as well as their abnormal control to induce autoimmune disease. During an infection, naive T cells are differentiating into TFH cells which mediate memory B cells and long-lived plasma cells in germinal center (GC). TFH cells are characterized by their expression of master regulator, Bcl-6, and chemokine receptor, CXCR5, which are essential for the migration of T cells into the B cell follicle. Within the follicle, crosstalk occurs between B cells and TFH cells, leading to class switch recombination and affinity maturation. Various signaling molecules, including cytokines, surface molecules, and transcription factors are involved in TFH cell differentiation. IL-6 and IL-21 cytokine-mediated STAT signaling pathways, including STAT1 and STAT3, are crucial for inducing Bcl-6 expression and TFH cell differentiation. TFH cells express important surface molecules such as ICOS, PD-1, IL-21, BTLA, SAP and CD40L for mediating the interaction between T and B cells. Recently, two types of microRNA (miRNA) were found to be involved in the regulation of TFH cells. The miR-17-92 cluster induces Bcl-6 and TFH cell differentiation, whereas miR-10a negatively regulates Bcl-6 expression in T cells. In addition, follicular regulatory T (TFR) cells are studied as thymus-derived CXCR5(+)PD-1(+)Foxp3(+) Treg cells that play a significant role in limiting the GC response. Regulation of TFH cell differentiation and the GC reaction via miRNA and TFR cells could be important regulatory mechanisms for maintaining immune tolerance and preventing autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here, we review recent studies on the various factors that affect TFH cell differentiation, and the role of TFH cells in autoimmune diseases.. Follicular helper T (TFH) cells are recently highlighted as their crucial role for humoral immunity to infection as well as their abnormal control to induce autoimmune disease. During an infection, naive T cells are differentiating into TFH cells which mediate memory B cells and long-lived plasma cells in germinal center (GC). TFH cells are characterized by their expression of master regulator, Bcl-6, and chemokine receptor, CXCR5, which are essential for the migration of T cells into the B cell follicle. Within the follicle, crosstalk occurs between B cells and TFH cells, leading to class switch recombination and affinity maturation. Various signaling molecules, including cytokines, surface molecules, and transcription factors are involved in TFH cell differentiation. IL-6 and IL-21 cytokine-mediated STAT signaling pathways, including STAT1 and STAT3, are crucial for inducing Bcl-6 expression and TFH cell differentiation. TFH cells express important surface molecules such as ICOS, PD-1, IL-21, BTLA, SAP and CD40L for mediating the interaction between T and B cells. Recently, two types of microRNA (miRNA) were found to be involved in the regulation of TFH cells. The miR-17-92 cluster induces Bcl-6 and TFH cell differentiation, whereas miR-10a negatively regulates Bcl-6 expression in T cells. In addition, follicular regulatory T (TFR) cells are studied as thymus-derived CXCR5(+)PD-1(+)Foxp3(+) Treg cells that play a significant role in limiting the GC response. Regulation of TFH cell differentiation and the GC reaction via miRNA and TFR cells could be important regulatory mechanisms for maintaining immune tolerance and preventing autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here, we review recent studies on the various factors that affect TFH cell differentiation, and the role of TFH cells in autoimmune diseases.

Pauley, K. M. and S. Cha (2011). "miRNA-146a in rheumatoid arthritis: a new therapeutic strategy." Immunotherapy 3(7): 829-831. Evaluation of: Nakasa T, Shibuya H, Nagata Y, Niimoto T, Ochi M: The inhibitory effect of microRNA-146a expression on bone destruction in collagen-induced arthritis. Arthritis Rheum. 63(6), 1582-1590 (2011). miRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been shown to play an important role in the negative regulation of inflammatory innate immune responses, and is differentially expressed in a number of human diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. However, evidence for the potential therapeutic use of miR-146a in human disease has been lacking. The current paper demonstrates the potential therapeutic application of miR-146a for rheumatoid arthritis by demonstrating the inhibitory effect of miR-146a on osteoclastogenesis in vitro. Moreover, using a collagen-induced arthritis mouse model, they were able to demonstrate that intravenous administration of double-stranded miR-146a resulted in the suppression of cartilage and bone destruction, despite relatively unaffected immune cell infiltration of the synovium and inflammatory cytokine expression.. Evaluation of: Nakasa T, Shibuya H, Nagata Y, Niimoto T, Ochi M: The inhibitory effect of microRNA-146a expression on bone destruction in collagen-induced arthritis. Arthritis Rheum. 63(6), 1582-1590 (2011). miRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been shown to play an important role in the negative regulation of inflammatory innate immune responses, and is differentially expressed in a number of human diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. However, evidence for the potential therapeutic use of miR-146a in human disease has been lacking. The current paper demonstrates the potential therapeutic application of miR-146a for rheumatoid arthritis by demonstrating the inhibitory effect of miR-146a on osteoclastogenesis in vitro. Moreover, using a collagen-induced arthritis mouse model, they were able to demonstrate that intravenous administration of double-stranded miR-146a resulted in the suppression of cartilage and bone destruction, despite relatively unaffected immune cell infiltration of the synovium and inflammatory cytokine expression.

Pauley, K. M., S. Cha, et al. (2009). "MicroRNA in autoimmunity and autoimmune diseases." J Autoimmun 32(3-4): 189-194. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small conserved non-coding RNA molecules that post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression by targeting the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of specific messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for degradation or translational repression. miRNA-mediated gene regulation is critical for normal cellular functions such as the cell cycle, differentiation, and apoptosis, and as much as one-third of human mRNAs may be miRNA targets. Emerging evidence has demonstrated that miRNAs play a vital role in the regulation of immunological functions and the prevention of autoimmunity. Here we review the many newly discovered roles of miRNA regulation in immune functions and in the development of autoimmunity and autoimmune disease. Specifically, we discuss the involvement of miRNA regulation in innate and adaptive immune responses, immune cell development, T regulatory cell stability and function, and differential miRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small conserved non-coding RNA molecules that post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression by targeting the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of specific messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for degradation or translational repression. miRNA-mediated gene regulation is critical for normal cellular functions such as the cell cycle, differentiation, and apoptosis, and as much as one-third of human mRNAs may be miRNA targets. Emerging evidence has demonstrated that miRNAs play a vital role in the regulation of immunological functions and the prevention of autoimmunity. Here we review the many newly discovered roles of miRNA regulation in immune functions and in the development of autoimmunity and autoimmune disease. Specifically, we discuss the involvement of miRNA regulation in innate and adaptive immune responses, immune cell development, T regulatory cell stability and function, and differential miRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.

Pauley, K. M., M. Satoh, et al. (2008). "Upregulated miR-146a expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from rheumatoid arthritis patients." Arthritis Res Ther 10(4): R101. INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNA molecules that negatively regulate gene expression via degradation or translational repression of their targeted mRNAs. It is known that aberrant microRNA expression can play important roles in cancer, but the role of microRNAs in autoimmune diseases is only beginning to emerge. In this study, the expression of selected microRNAs is examined in rheumatoid arthritis. METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and healthy and disease control individuals, and the expression of miR-146a, miR-155, miR-132, miR-16, and microRNA let-7a was analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR. RESULTS: Rheumatoid arthritis peripheral blood mononuclear cells exhibited between 1.8-fold and 2.6-fold increases in miR-146a, miR-155, miR-132, and miR-16 expression, whereas let-7a expression was not significantly different compared with healthy control individuals. In addition, two targets of miR-146a, namely tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1), were similarly expressed between rheumatoid arthritis patients and control individuals, despite increased expression of miR-146a in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Repression of TRAF6 and/or IRAK-1 in THP-1 cells resulted in up to an 86% reduction in tumor necrosis factor-alpha production, implicating that normal miR-146a function is critical for the regulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha production. CONCLUSIONS: Recent studies have shown that synovial tissue and synovial fibroblasts from patients with rheumatoid arthritis exhibit increased expression of certain microRNAs. Our data thus demonstrate that microRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis peripheral blood mononuclear cells mimics that of synovial tissue/fibroblasts. The increased microRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis patients is potentially useful as a marker for disease diagnosis, progression, or treatment efficacy, but this will require confirmation using a large and well defined cohort. Our data also suggest a possible mechanism contributing to rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis, whereby miR-146a expression is increased but unable to properly function, leading to prolonged tumor necrosis factor-alpha production in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.. INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNA molecules that negatively regulate gene expression via degradation or translational repression of their targeted mRNAs. It is known that aberrant microRNA expression can play important roles in cancer, but the role of microRNAs in autoimmune diseases is only beginning to emerge. In this study, the expression of selected microRNAs is examined in rheumatoid arthritis. METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and healthy and disease control individuals, and the expression of miR-146a, miR-155, miR-132, miR-16, and microRNA let-7a was analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR. RESULTS: Rheumatoid arthritis peripheral blood mononuclear cells exhibited between 1.8-fold and 2.6-fold increases in miR-146a, miR-155, miR-132, and miR-16 expression, whereas let-7a expression was not significantly different compared with healthy control individuals. In addition, two targets of miR-146a, namely tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1), were similarly expressed between rheumatoid arthritis patients and control individuals, despite increased expression of miR-146a in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Repression of TRAF6 and/or IRAK-1 in THP-1 cells resulted in up to an 86% reduction in tumor necrosis factor-alpha production, implicating that normal miR-146a function is critical for the regulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha production. CONCLUSIONS: Recent studies have shown that synovial tissue and synovial fibroblasts from patients with rheumatoid arthritis exhibit increased expression of certain microRNAs. Our data thus demonstrate that microRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis peripheral blood mononuclear cells mimics that of synovial tissue/fibroblasts. The increased microRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis patients is potentially useful as a marker for disease diagnosis, progression, or treatment efficacy, but this will require confirmation using a large and well defined cohort. Our data also suggest a possible mechanism contributing to rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis, whereby miR-146a expression is increased but unable to properly function, leading to prolonged tumor necrosis factor-alpha production in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Peng, A., X. Huang, et al. (2014). "[Triptolide inhibits the inflammatory response of monocytes from rheumatoid arthritis patients by regulating miR-155]." Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi 30(6): 635-638. OBJECTIVE: To explore the anti-inflammatory effect of triptolide (TPT) by regulating miR-155 in monocytes pre-stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. METHODS: Monocytes were isolated by CD14(+) magnetic beads from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of RA and stimulated by LPS for 24 hours. The levels of tumor-necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) in monocytes were detected by ELISA and the expression of miR-155 was measured by real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) in monocytes before and after the treatment of TPT at different concentrations. MiR-155 mimic and negative control were respectively transfected into the LPS-stimulated monocytes by Lipofectamine(TM)2000. Twenty-four hours later, the monocytes were treated with or without TPT for another 24 hours. TNF-alpha and IL-6 expressions in the cell culture supernatants were detected by ELISA and the expressions of suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS1) and Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP-1) were tested by Western blotting. RESULTS: TPT suppressed the expressions of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and miR-155 in LPS-stimulated peripheral blood monocytes from RA patients. Over-expression of miR-155 significantly reversed the down-regulation of TNF-alpha and IL-6 by TPT in monocytes. TPT up-regulated the expressions of SOCS1 and SHIP-1 in monocytes, but over-expressed miR-155 antagonized the effect of TPT on SHIP-1 while the expression of SOCS1 was not affected. CONCLUSION: TPT suppressed the expression of miR-155 and up-regulated the release of SHIP-1, thus inhibiting the inflammatory response in the LPS-stimulated monocytes of RA patients.. OBJECTIVE: To explore the anti-inflammatory effect of triptolide (TPT) by regulating miR-155 in monocytes pre-stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. METHODS: Monocytes were isolated by CD14(+) magnetic beads from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of RA and stimulated by LPS for 24 hours. The levels of tumor-necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) in monocytes were detected by ELISA and the expression of miR-155 was measured by real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) in monocytes before and after the treatment of TPT at different concentrations. MiR-155 mimic and negative control were respectively transfected into the LPS-stimulated monocytes by Lipofectamine(TM)2000. Twenty-four hours later, the monocytes were treated with or without TPT for another 24 hours. TNF-alpha and IL-6 expressions in the cell culture supernatants were detected by ELISA and the expressions of suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS1) and Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP-1) were tested by Western blotting. RESULTS: TPT suppressed the expressions of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and miR-155 in LPS-stimulated peripheral blood monocytes from RA patients. Over-expression of miR-155 significantly reversed the down-regulation of TNF-alpha and IL-6 by TPT in monocytes. TPT up-regulated the expressions of SOCS1 and SHIP-1 in monocytes, but over-expressed miR-155 antagonized the effect of TPT on SHIP-1 while the expression of SOCS1 was not affected. CONCLUSION: TPT suppressed the expression of miR-155 and up-regulated the release of SHIP-1, thus inhibiting the inflammatory response in the LPS-stimulated monocytes of RA patients.

Peng, J. S., S. Y. Chen, et al. (2016). "Amelioration of Experimental Autoimmune Arthritis Through Targeting of Synovial Fibroblasts by Intraarticular Delivery of MicroRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p." Arthritis Rheumatol 68(2): 370-381. OBJECTIVE: Synovial fibroblasts (SFs) with aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) are critical pathogenic regulators in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and studies analyzing the effect of overexpressing or silencing miRNA expression in arthritis models can contribute to the development of miRNA-based therapeutic strategies. This study was undertaken to examine the hypothesis that miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p are involved in the pathogenesis of RA, and to determine whether targeting SFs through the intraarticular (IA) delivery of these molecules could ameliorate autoimmune arthritis in mice. METHODS: Synovial tissue samples were obtained from patients with RA. In addition, 2 experimental models in mice were used, collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and collagen antibody-induced arthritis (CAIA). Overexpression of miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p in SFs and synovial tissue was induced using lentivirus (LV)-mediated transfer of pre-miR-140 precursor molecules. RESULTS: Lower expression levels of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p were detected in synovial tissue and SFs from patients with RA and from mice in both arthritis models. In mice with CIA and mice with CAIA, the LV-mediated IA transfer of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p ameliorated arthritis, as determined by clinical examination and histopathologic evaluations showing a decrease in SF densities. Overexpression of miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p caused a reduction in expression, with correlated kinetic patterns, of their corresponding target molecules sirtuin 1 and stromal cell-derived factor 1 in the SFs and joints of mice. Transfection of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p into SFs increased cell apoptosis, reduced proliferation responses and migration abilities, and verified the concept that miR-140 expression is regulated by proinflammatory cytokines. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that targeting SFs by IA delivery of miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p can ameliorate autoimmune arthritis. These findings might facilitate the pharmacologic development of molecular-based therapies in RA.. OBJECTIVE: Synovial fibroblasts (SFs) with aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) are critical pathogenic regulators in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and studies analyzing the effect of overexpressing or silencing miRNA expression in arthritis models can contribute to the development of miRNA-based therapeutic strategies. This study was undertaken to examine the hypothesis that miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p are involved in the pathogenesis of RA, and to determine whether targeting SFs through the intraarticular (IA) delivery of these molecules could ameliorate autoimmune arthritis in mice. METHODS: Synovial tissue samples were obtained from patients with RA. In addition, 2 experimental models in mice were used, collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and collagen antibody-induced arthritis (CAIA). Overexpression of miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p in SFs and synovial tissue was induced using lentivirus (LV)-mediated transfer of pre-miR-140 precursor molecules. RESULTS: Lower expression levels of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p were detected in synovial tissue and SFs from patients with RA and from mice in both arthritis models. In mice with CIA and mice with CAIA, the LV-mediated IA transfer of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p ameliorated arthritis, as determined by clinical examination and histopathologic evaluations showing a decrease in SF densities. Overexpression of miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p caused a reduction in expression, with correlated kinetic patterns, of their corresponding target molecules sirtuin 1 and stromal cell-derived factor 1 in the SFs and joints of mice. Transfection of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p into SFs increased cell apoptosis, reduced proliferation responses and migration abilities, and verified the concept that miR-140 expression is regulated by proinflammatory cytokines. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that targeting SFs by IA delivery of miRNAs 140-3p and 140-5p can ameliorate autoimmune arthritis. These findings might facilitate the pharmacologic development of molecular-based therapies in RA.

Philippe, L., G. Alsaleh, et al. (2013). "MiR-20a regulates ASK1 expression and TLR4-dependent cytokine release in rheumatoid fibroblast-like synoviocytes." Ann Rheum Dis 72(6): 1071-1079. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether miR-20a belonging to the cluster miR-17-92 is a negative regulator of inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) by modulating expression of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase (ASK) 1, a key component of the toll-like receptors 4 pathway, upstream of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. METHODS: Evaluation of miR-20a and ASK1 mRNA was performed by RT-qPCR. ASK1 protein expression was assessed by western blotting. Overexpression of miR-20a was performed by transfection of RA FLS and THP-1 cells with miR-20a mimics. Interleukin (IL)-6, CXCL-10, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha release were measured by ELISA. The role of miR-20a in vivo was assessed by IL-6 release from macrophages obtained from mice injected intraperitoneally with vectorised miR-20a mimics. RESULTS: We showed that stimulation of RA FLS with lipopolysacharide (LPS) and bacterial lipoproteins (BLP) induces a drop in expression of miR-20a and that this decrease is associated with an upregulation of ASK1 expression. Using transfection of Ask1 3'UTR reporters, we demonstrate that Ask1 is a direct target of miR-20a. Overexpression of miR-20a led to a global decrease in ASK1 protein in BLP- and LPS-activated cells indicating that miR-20a regulates the expression of ASK1 at the translational level. Transfection of miR-20a mimics decreases IL-6 and CXCL10 release by RA FLS and IL-1beta and TNF-alpha by activated THP-1 cells but only in response to LPS. Last, injection of vectorised miR-20a mimics to mice led to a global decrease in ASK1 protein expression and IL-6 secretion in LPS-activated macrophages. CONCLUSIONS: Our data point toward an important role for miR-20a in the regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines release, by controlling ASK1 expression in RA FLS.. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether miR-20a belonging to the cluster miR-17-92 is a negative regulator of inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) by modulating expression of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase (ASK) 1, a key component of the toll-like receptors 4 pathway, upstream of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. METHODS: Evaluation of miR-20a and ASK1 mRNA was performed by RT-qPCR. ASK1 protein expression was assessed by western blotting. Overexpression of miR-20a was performed by transfection of RA FLS and THP-1 cells with miR-20a mimics. Interleukin (IL)-6, CXCL-10, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha release were measured by ELISA. The role of miR-20a in vivo was assessed by IL-6 release from macrophages obtained from mice injected intraperitoneally with vectorised miR-20a mimics. RESULTS: We showed that stimulation of RA FLS with lipopolysacharide (LPS) and bacterial lipoproteins (BLP) induces a drop in expression of miR-20a and that this decrease is associated with an upregulation of ASK1 expression. Using transfection of Ask1 3'UTR reporters, we demonstrate that Ask1 is a direct target of miR-20a. Overexpression of miR-20a led to a global decrease in ASK1 protein in BLP- and LPS-activated cells indicating that miR-20a regulates the expression of ASK1 at the translational level. Transfection of miR-20a mimics decreases IL-6 and CXCL10 release by RA FLS and IL-1beta and TNF-alpha by activated THP-1 cells but only in response to LPS. Last, injection of vectorised miR-20a mimics to mice led to a global decrease in ASK1 protein expression and IL-6 secretion in LPS-activated macrophages. CONCLUSIONS: Our data point toward an important role for miR-20a in the regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines release, by controlling ASK1 expression in RA FLS.

Philippe, L., G. Alsaleh, et al. (2012). "TLR2 expression is regulated by microRNA miR-19 in rheumatoid fibroblast-like synoviocytes." J Immunol 188(1): 454-461. Resident cells, such as fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), play a crucial role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). They are implicated in the inflammatory response and play a key role in osteoarticular destruction. Moreover, RA FLS spread RA to unaffected joints. Pathogen-associated molecular patterns and damage-associated molecular patterns have been found to activate RA FLS by interacting with pattern recognition receptors, such as TLR. RA FLS express a large number of TLR, and TLR2 was demonstrated to be involved in RA inflammation. Because microRNA have emerged as important controllers of TLR expression and signaling, the aim of this study was to evaluate their potential involvement in the control of TLR2 expression by RA FLS. We first showed that Tlr2 expression is strongly upregulated in RA FLS in response to TLR2 ligands. Using a microRNA microarray analysis, we identified one miRNA in activated RA FLS, miR-19b, which was downregulated and predicted to target Tlr2 mRNA. Downregulation of miR-19b and miR-19a, which belongs to the same cluster, was confirmed by real-time quantitative PCR. Transfection of RA FLS with miR-19a/b mimics decreased TLR2 protein expression. In parallel, we found that both IL-6 and matrix metalloproteinase 3 secretion was significantly downregulated in activated FLS transfected with either mimic. Moreover, using a luciferase assay, we showed that miR-19a/b directly target Tlr2 mRNA. Taken together, our data point toward an important role for miR-19a/b in the regulation of IL-6 and matrix metalloproteinase 3 release by controlling TLR2 expression, as well as provide evidence that miR-19a/b can act as negative regulators of inflammation in humans.. Resident cells, such as fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), play a crucial role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). They are implicated in the inflammatory response and play a key role in osteoarticular destruction. Moreover, RA FLS spread RA to unaffected joints. Pathogen-associated molecular patterns and damage-associated molecular patterns have been found to activate RA FLS by interacting with pattern recognition receptors, such as TLR. RA FLS express a large number of TLR, and TLR2 was demonstrated to be involved in RA inflammation. Because microRNA have emerged as important controllers of TLR expression and signaling, the aim of this study was to evaluate their potential involvement in the control of TLR2 expression by RA FLS. We first showed that Tlr2 expression is strongly upregulated in RA FLS in response to TLR2 ligands. Using a microRNA microarray analysis, we identified one miRNA in activated RA FLS, miR-19b, which was downregulated and predicted to target Tlr2 mRNA. Downregulation of miR-19b and miR-19a, which belongs to the same cluster, was confirmed by real-time quantitative PCR. Transfection of RA FLS with miR-19a/b mimics decreased TLR2 protein expression. In parallel, we found that both IL-6 and matrix metalloproteinase 3 secretion was significantly downregulated in activated FLS transfected with either mimic. Moreover, using a luciferase assay, we showed that miR-19a/b directly target Tlr2 mRNA. Taken together, our data point toward an important role for miR-19a/b in the regulation of IL-6 and matrix metalloproteinase 3 release by controlling TLR2 expression, as well as provide evidence that miR-19a/b can act as negative regulators of inflammation in humans.

Picascia, A., V. Grimaldi, et al. (2015). "Epigenetic control of autoimmune diseases: from bench to bedside." Clin Immunol 157(1): 1-15. Genome-wide association studies have revealed several genes predisposing to autoimmunity, however, concordance rates in monozygotic twins are significantly below 50% for several autoimmune diseases. The limited presence of a strong genetic association only in some patients supports that other non-genetic mechanisms are active in these pathologies. Epigenetic modifications such as DNA methylation, histone modification, and microRNA signaling regulate gene expression and are sensitive to external stimuli and they might be as bridging between genetic and environmental factors. Some evidence has highlighted the involvement of epigenetic alterations in the pathogenesis of various autoimmune diseases giving rise to great expectations among clinicians and researchers. The direct role of these alterations in the initiation/progression of autoimmune diseases is still unclear. The knowledge in depth of these pathogenic and epigenetic mechanisms will increase the possibility of the control and/or prevention of autoimmune diseases through the use of drugs that target epigenetic pathways. Moreover, we could use epigenetic-related biomarkers to follow this complicated framework (for example H3K4me3 and miRNA-155 are among those proposed biomarkers). This article reviews current understanding of the epigenetic involvement in the field of autoimmune diseases especially in systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, sclerosis multiple and type 1 diabetes.. Genome-wide association studies have revealed several genes predisposing to autoimmunity, however, concordance rates in monozygotic twins are significantly below 50% for several autoimmune diseases. The limited presence of a strong genetic association only in some patients supports that other non-genetic mechanisms are active in these pathologies. Epigenetic modifications such as DNA methylation, histone modification, and microRNA signaling regulate gene expression and are sensitive to external stimuli and they might be as bridging between genetic and environmental factors. Some evidence has highlighted the involvement of epigenetic alterations in the pathogenesis of various autoimmune diseases giving rise to great expectations among clinicians and researchers. The direct role of these alterations in the initiation/progression of autoimmune diseases is still unclear. The knowledge in depth of these pathogenic and epigenetic mechanisms will increase the possibility of the control and/or prevention of autoimmune diseases through the use of drugs that target epigenetic pathways. Moreover, we could use epigenetic-related biomarkers to follow this complicated framework (for example H3K4me3 and miRNA-155 are among those proposed biomarkers). This article reviews current understanding of the epigenetic involvement in the field of autoimmune diseases especially in systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, sclerosis multiple and type 1 diabetes.

Pihlmann, M., A. L. Askou, et al. (2012). "Adeno-associated virus-delivered polycistronic microRNA-clusters for knockdown of vascular endothelial growth factor in vivo." J Gene Med 14(5): 328-338. BACKGROUND: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an angiogenic growth factor that plays a critical role in several diseases, including cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and diseases of the eye. Persistent regulation of VEGF by expression of small interfering RNAs targeting VEGF represents a potential future strategy for treatment of such diseases. As a step toward this goal, the present study combines the potency of VEGF-targeted miRNA mimics, produced from a miRNA cluster, with delivery by adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based vectors. METHODS: Nine different engineered tri-cistronic miRNA clusters encoding anti-VEGF effectors were generated and tested in adult human retinal pigment epithelial (ARPE-19) cells using Renilla luciferase screening, quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blotting and immunostaining analysis. In vivo efficacy was tested by the injection of scAAV2/8 vectors expressing the most effective miRNA cluster into murine hindlimb muscles, followed by quantitative RT-PCR. RESULTS: Plasmids containing anti-VEGF miRNA clusters showed efficient silencing of VEGF and demonstrated a combined gene silencing effect for miRNA clusters composed of multiple miRNA-mimicked RNA interference effectors. The most potent molecule, miR-5,10,7, resulted in a knockdown of VEGF by approximately 75%. Injection of scAAV2/8 vectors expressing miR-5,10,7 into murine hindlimb muscles, resulted in a 44% reduction of endogenous VEGF. CONCLUSIONS: We have developed miRNA clusters encoding anti-VEGF effectors and shown, in a mouse model, that VEGF is efficiently down-regulated by scAAV2/8-delivered miRNA clusters, allowing potent attenuation of VEGF. These findings may contribute to the development of gene therapy based on AAV-mediated delivery of miRNA clusters.. BACKGROUND: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an angiogenic growth factor that plays a critical role in several diseases, including cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and diseases of the eye. Persistent regulation of VEGF by expression of small interfering RNAs targeting VEGF represents a potential future strategy for treatment of such diseases. As a step toward this goal, the present study combines the potency of VEGF-targeted miRNA mimics, produced from a miRNA cluster, with delivery by adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based vectors. METHODS: Nine different engineered tri-cistronic miRNA clusters encoding anti-VEGF effectors were generated and tested in adult human retinal pigment epithelial (ARPE-19) cells using Renilla luciferase screening, quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blotting and immunostaining analysis. In vivo efficacy was tested by the injection of scAAV2/8 vectors expressing the most effective miRNA cluster into murine hindlimb muscles, followed by quantitative RT-PCR. RESULTS: Plasmids containing anti-VEGF miRNA clusters showed efficient silencing of VEGF and demonstrated a combined gene silencing effect for miRNA clusters composed of multiple miRNA-mimicked RNA interference effectors. The most potent molecule, miR-5,10,7, resulted in a knockdown of VEGF by approximately 75%. Injection of scAAV2/8 vectors expressing miR-5,10,7 into murine hindlimb muscles, resulted in a 44% reduction of endogenous VEGF. CONCLUSIONS: We have developed miRNA clusters encoding anti-VEGF effectors and shown, in a mouse model, that VEGF is efficiently down-regulated by scAAV2/8-delivered miRNA clusters, allowing potent attenuation of VEGF. These findings may contribute to the development of gene therapy based on AAV-mediated delivery of miRNA clusters.

Piletic, K. and T. Kunej (2016). "MicroRNA epigenetic signatures in human disease." Arch Toxicol 90(10): 2405-2419. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that act as important regulators of gene expression as part of the epigenetic machinery. In addition to posttranscriptional gene silencing by miRNAs, the epigenetic mechanisms also include DNA methylation, histone modifications and their crosstalk. Epigenetic modifications were reported to play an important role in many disease onsets and progressions and can be used to explain several features of complex diseases, such as late onset and fluctuation of symptoms. However, miRNAs not only function as a part of epigenetic machinery, but are also epigenetically modified by DNA methylation and histone modification like any other protein-coding gene. There is a strong connection between epigenome and miRNome, and any dysregulation of this complex system can result in various physiological and pathological conditions. In addition, miRNAs play an important role in toxicogenomics and may explain the relationship between toxicant exposure and tumorigenesis. The present review provides information on 63 miRNA genes shown to be epigenetically regulated in association with 21 diseases, including 11 cancer types: cardiac fibrosis, cardiovascular disease, preeclampsia, Hirschsprung's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, temporal lobe epilepsy, autism, pulmonary fibrosis, melanoma, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, colorectal, gastric, cervical, ovarian, prostate, lung, breast, and bladder cancer. The review revealed that hsa-miR-34a, hsa-miR-34b, and hsa-miR-34c are the most frequently reported epigenetically dysregulated miRNAs. There is a need to further study molecular mechanisms of various diseases to better understand the crosstalk between epigenetics and gene expression and to develop new therapeutic options and biomarkers.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that act as important regulators of gene expression as part of the epigenetic machinery. In addition to posttranscriptional gene silencing by miRNAs, the epigenetic mechanisms also include DNA methylation, histone modifications and their crosstalk. Epigenetic modifications were reported to play an important role in many disease onsets and progressions and can be used to explain several features of complex diseases, such as late onset and fluctuation of symptoms. However, miRNAs not only function as a part of epigenetic machinery, but are also epigenetically modified by DNA methylation and histone modification like any other protein-coding gene. There is a strong connection between epigenome and miRNome, and any dysregulation of this complex system can result in various physiological and pathological conditions. In addition, miRNAs play an important role in toxicogenomics and may explain the relationship between toxicant exposure and tumorigenesis. The present review provides information on 63 miRNA genes shown to be epigenetically regulated in association with 21 diseases, including 11 cancer types: cardiac fibrosis, cardiovascular disease, preeclampsia, Hirschsprung's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, temporal lobe epilepsy, autism, pulmonary fibrosis, melanoma, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, colorectal, gastric, cervical, ovarian, prostate, lung, breast, and bladder cancer. The review revealed that hsa-miR-34a, hsa-miR-34b, and hsa-miR-34c are the most frequently reported epigenetically dysregulated miRNAs. There is a need to further study molecular mechanisms of various diseases to better understand the crosstalk between epigenetics and gene expression and to develop new therapeutic options and biomarkers.

Prabahar, A. and J. Natarajan (2017). "MicroRNA mediated network motifs in autoimmune diseases and its crosstalk between genes, functions and pathways." J Immunol Methods 440: 19-26. Autoimmune diseases (AIDs) are incurable but suppressible diseases whose molecular mechanisms are yet to be elucidated. In this work, we selected five systemic autoimmune diseases such as Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), Type 1 Diabetes (T1D), Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), Autoimmune Thyroid Disease (ATD) and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). Heterogeneous data such as miRNA, transcription factor (TF), target genes and protein-protein interactions involved in these AIDs were integrated to understand their roles at different functional levels of miRNA such as transcription initiation, gene regulatory network formation and post transcriptional regulation. To understand the functional characteristics of these complex biological networks, they can be simplified as network motifs (sub networks) and motif-motif interacting pairs (MMIs). The network motif patterns and motif-motif interacting pairs that occur for the selected five diseases were identified. To further understand the functional association between AIDs, functions and pathways were determined using gene set enrichment analysis and five selected immune signaling pathways (ISPs). The crosstalk within AIDs and between the immune signaling pathways (ISPs) could provide novel insights in deciphering disease mechanisms. This study represents the first investigation of miRNA-TF regulatory network for AIDs and its association with ISPs using sub-network motifs.. Autoimmune diseases (AIDs) are incurable but suppressible diseases whose molecular mechanisms are yet to be elucidated. In this work, we selected five systemic autoimmune diseases such as Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), Type 1 Diabetes (T1D), Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), Autoimmune Thyroid Disease (ATD) and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). Heterogeneous data such as miRNA, transcription factor (TF), target genes and protein-protein interactions involved in these AIDs were integrated to understand their roles at different functional levels of miRNA such as transcription initiation, gene regulatory network formation and post transcriptional regulation. To understand the functional characteristics of these complex biological networks, they can be simplified as network motifs (sub networks) and motif-motif interacting pairs (MMIs). The network motif patterns and motif-motif interacting pairs that occur for the selected five diseases were identified. To further understand the functional association between AIDs, functions and pathways were determined using gene set enrichment analysis and five selected immune signaling pathways (ISPs). The crosstalk within AIDs and between the immune signaling pathways (ISPs) could provide novel insights in deciphering disease mechanisms. This study represents the first investigation of miRNA-TF regulatory network for AIDs and its association with ISPs using sub-network motifs.

Qian, K., L. Zhang, et al. (2018). "Triptolide prevents osteoarthritis via inhibiting hsa-miR-20b." InflammopharmacologyTriptolide has been widely reported to exhibit potential therapeutic value in multiple inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and psoriasis. Although its safety and efficacy as an anti-inflammatory agent have been verified by many studies, the effect of triptolide on osteoarthritis (OA) was not clearly understood. In this study, we found that triptolide prevented OA development in a surgical destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) mouse model. In addition, triptolide inhibited both DMM-induced and LPS-induced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the human monocytic cell line THP-1. Further mechanistic studies showed that the reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines by triptolide was mediated by the upregulation of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) and downregulation of caspase-1. Finally, we identified that hsa-miR-20b, a microRNA targeting the NLRP3 gene, was downregulated by triptolide. This study provides a novel insight into the effect on triptolide in preventing OA pathogenesis.. Triptolide has been widely reported to exhibit potential therapeutic value in multiple inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and psoriasis. Although its safety and efficacy as an anti-inflammatory agent have been verified by many studies, the effect of triptolide on osteoarthritis (OA) was not clearly understood. In this study, we found that triptolide prevented OA development in a surgical destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) mouse model. In addition, triptolide inhibited both DMM-induced and LPS-induced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the human monocytic cell line THP-1. Further mechanistic studies showed that the reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines by triptolide was mediated by the upregulation of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) and downregulation of caspase-1. Finally, we identified that hsa-miR-20b, a microRNA targeting the NLRP3 gene, was downregulated by triptolide. This study provides a novel insight into the effect on triptolide in preventing OA pathogenesis.

Qin, B., F. Huang, et al. (2013). "Analysis of altered microRNA expression profiles in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis." J Gastroenterol Hepatol 28(3): 543-550. BACKGROUND AND AIM: MicroRNA, as an important regulator of gene expression, has been found to be associated with several diseases. MicroRNA expression profiles have been identified in several autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and multiple sclerosis. However, the expression profile in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) patients and the role of microRNA in PBC remained unclear. The present study aimed to explore abnormal microRNA regulation in PBC. METHODS: MicroRNA array was performed in PBMCs obtained from PBC patients versus healthy controls. Then, six of the 17 differentially expressed microRNAs were confirmed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Based on bioinformatics analysis, we identified the potential biological processes and significant signaling pathways affected by these microRNAs, and generated the microRNA-gene network. RESULTS: According to microRNA array, a total of 17 microRNAs were found to be differentially expressed. Six microRNAs have been validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and the results were consistent with microRNA array analysis. The bioinformatics analysis showed that the potential target genes of these microRNAs were involved in cell proliferation, cell differentiation, apoptosis, and signal transduction. Similarly, these microRNAs also affected endocytosis, mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway, transforming growth factor-beta signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, calcium signaling pathway, etc. CONCLUSION: In the present study, 17 microRNAs were identified to be differentially expressed in PBMCs from PBC patients. Functional bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that prediction genes targeted by these microRNAs were involved in multiple biological processes and signaling pathways. The present study offers intriguing new perspectives on the involvement of microRNA in PBC, but the precise mechanisms need to be validated further.. BACKGROUND AND AIM: MicroRNA, as an important regulator of gene expression, has been found to be associated with several diseases. MicroRNA expression profiles have been identified in several autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and multiple sclerosis. However, the expression profile in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) patients and the role of microRNA in PBC remained unclear. The present study aimed to explore abnormal microRNA regulation in PBC. METHODS: MicroRNA array was performed in PBMCs obtained from PBC patients versus healthy controls. Then, six of the 17 differentially expressed microRNAs were confirmed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Based on bioinformatics analysis, we identified the potential biological processes and significant signaling pathways affected by these microRNAs, and generated the microRNA-gene network. RESULTS: According to microRNA array, a total of 17 microRNAs were found to be differentially expressed. Six microRNAs have been validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and the results were consistent with microRNA array analysis. The bioinformatics analysis showed that the potential target genes of these microRNAs were involved in cell proliferation, cell differentiation, apoptosis, and signal transduction. Similarly, these microRNAs also affected endocytosis, mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway, transforming growth factor-beta signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, calcium signaling pathway, etc. CONCLUSION: In the present study, 17 microRNAs were identified to be differentially expressed in PBMCs from PBC patients. Functional bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that prediction genes targeted by these microRNAs were involved in multiple biological processes and signaling pathways. The present study offers intriguing new perspectives on the involvement of microRNA in PBC, but the precise mechanisms need to be validated further.

Qu, Y., J. Wu, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-126 affects rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblast proliferation and apoptosis by targeting PIK3R2 and regulating PI3K-AKT signal pathway." Oncotarget 7(45): 74217-74226. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease that causes inflammation and destruction of the joints as well as an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. RA synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) are involved in the progression of RA and release pro-inflammatory cytokines. On the other hand, microRNAs (miRs) may help control the inflammatory response of immune and non-immune cells. Therefore, our study used lentiviral expression vectors to test the effects of miR-126 overexpression on RASF proliferation and apoptosis. Luciferase experiments verified the targeting relationship between miR-126 and PIK3R2 gene. The co-transfection of anti-miR-126 and PIK3R2 siRNA to RASFs were used to identify whether PIK3R2 was directly involved in proliferation and apoptosis of miR-126-induced RASFs. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect miR-126 and PIK3R2 expressions. MTT assay was used to detect cell proliferation. Flow cytometry was used to detect cell apoptosis and cell cycle. Western blotting was used to detect PIK3R2, PI3K, AKT and p-AKT proteins. After Lv-miR-126 infected RASFs, the relative expression of miR-126 was significantly enhanced. MiR-126 promoted RASF proliferation and inhibited apoptosis. Levels of PIK3R2 decreased while total PI3K and p-AKT levels increased in RASFs overexpressing miR-126. Co-transfection of anti-miR-126 and PIK3R2 siRNA also increased PI3K and p-AKT levels as well as RASF proliferation and reduced apoptosis, as compared to anti-miR-126 treatment alone. Finally, luciferase reporter assays showed that miR-126 targeted PIK3R2. Our data indicate that miR-126 overexpression in RASFs inhibits PIK3R2 expression and promotes proliferation while inhibiting apoptosis. This suggests inhibiting miR-126 may yield therapeutic benefits in the treatment of RA.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease that causes inflammation and destruction of the joints as well as an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. RA synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) are involved in the progression of RA and release pro-inflammatory cytokines. On the other hand, microRNAs (miRs) may help control the inflammatory response of immune and non-immune cells. Therefore, our study used lentiviral expression vectors to test the effects of miR-126 overexpression on RASF proliferation and apoptosis. Luciferase experiments verified the targeting relationship between miR-126 and PIK3R2 gene. The co-transfection of anti-miR-126 and PIK3R2 siRNA to RASFs were used to identify whether PIK3R2 was directly involved in proliferation and apoptosis of miR-126-induced RASFs. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect miR-126 and PIK3R2 expressions. MTT assay was used to detect cell proliferation. Flow cytometry was used to detect cell apoptosis and cell cycle. Western blotting was used to detect PIK3R2, PI3K, AKT and p-AKT proteins. After Lv-miR-126 infected RASFs, the relative expression of miR-126 was significantly enhanced. MiR-126 promoted RASF proliferation and inhibited apoptosis. Levels of PIK3R2 decreased while total PI3K and p-AKT levels increased in RASFs overexpressing miR-126. Co-transfection of anti-miR-126 and PIK3R2 siRNA also increased PI3K and p-AKT levels as well as RASF proliferation and reduced apoptosis, as compared to anti-miR-126 treatment alone. Finally, luciferase reporter assays showed that miR-126 targeted PIK3R2. Our data indicate that miR-126 overexpression in RASFs inhibits PIK3R2 expression and promotes proliferation while inhibiting apoptosis. This suggests inhibiting miR-126 may yield therapeutic benefits in the treatment of RA.

Quinn, S. R., N. E. Mangan, et al. (2014). "The role of Ets2 transcription factor in the induction of microRNA-155 (miR-155) by lipopolysaccharide and its targeting by interleukin-10." J Biol Chem 289(7): 4316-4325. MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) is highly expressed in many cancers such as B cell lymphomas and myeloid leukemia and inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, atopic dermatitis, and multiple sclerosis. The role of miR-155 as both a promoter of inflammation and an oncogenic agent provides a clear need for miR-155 itself to be stringently regulated. We therefore investigated the transcriptional regulation of miR-155 in response to the respective pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators LPS and IL-10. Bioinformatic analysis revealed Ets binding sites on the miR-155 promoter, and we found that Ets2 is critical for miR-155 induction by LPS. Truncation and mutational analysis of the miR-155 promoter confirmed the role of the Ets2 binding site proximal to the transcription start site for LPS responsiveness. We observed increased binding of Ets2 to the miR-155 promoter and Ets2 deficient mice displayed decreased induction of miR-155 in response to LPS. IL-10 inhibited the induction of Ets2 mRNA and protein by LPS, thereby decreasing Ets2 function on the pri-155 promoter. We have thus identified Ets2 as a key novel regulator in both the positive and negative control of miR-155 in the inflammatory response.. MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) is highly expressed in many cancers such as B cell lymphomas and myeloid leukemia and inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, atopic dermatitis, and multiple sclerosis. The role of miR-155 as both a promoter of inflammation and an oncogenic agent provides a clear need for miR-155 itself to be stringently regulated. We therefore investigated the transcriptional regulation of miR-155 in response to the respective pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators LPS and IL-10. Bioinformatic analysis revealed Ets binding sites on the miR-155 promoter, and we found that Ets2 is critical for miR-155 induction by LPS. Truncation and mutational analysis of the miR-155 promoter confirmed the role of the Ets2 binding site proximal to the transcription start site for LPS responsiveness. We observed increased binding of Ets2 to the miR-155 promoter and Ets2 deficient mice displayed decreased induction of miR-155 in response to LPS. IL-10 inhibited the induction of Ets2 mRNA and protein by LPS, thereby decreasing Ets2 function on the pri-155 promoter. We have thus identified Ets2 as a key novel regulator in both the positive and negative control of miR-155 in the inflammatory response.

Rajasekhar, M., A. M. Olsson, et al. (2017). "MicroRNA-155 contributes to enhanced resistance to apoptosis in monocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis." J Autoimmun 79: 53-62. Monocytes and macrophages are key mediators of inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Their persistence at the inflammatory site is likely to contribute to immunopathology. We sought to characterise one mechanism by which persistence may be achieved: resistance to apoptosis and the role of mir-155 in this process. CD14+ monocytes from peripheral blood (PBM) and synovial fluid (SFM) of RA patients were found to be resistant to spontaneous apoptosis relative to PBM from healthy control (HC) individuals. RA SFM were also resistant to anti-Fas-mediated apoptosis and displayed a gene expression profile distinct from HC and RA PBM populations. Gene expression profiling analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes in RA SFM vs. PBM were enriched for apoptosis-related genes and showed increased expression of the mir-155 precursor BIC. Following identification of potential mir-155 target transcripts by bioinformatic methods, we show increased levels of mature mir-155 expression in RA PBM and SFM vs. HC PBM and a corresponding decrease in SFM of two predicted mir-155-target mRNAs, apoptosis mediators CASP10 and APAF1. Using miR mimics, we demonstrate that mir-155 over-expression in healthy CD14+ cells conferred resistance to spontaneous apoptosis, but not Fas-induced death in these cells, and resulted in increased production of cytokines and chemokines. Collectively our data indicate that CD14+ cells from patients with RA show enhanced resistance to apoptosis, and suggest that an increase in mir-155 may partially contribute to this phenotype.. Monocytes and macrophages are key mediators of inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Their persistence at the inflammatory site is likely to contribute to immunopathology. We sought to characterise one mechanism by which persistence may be achieved: resistance to apoptosis and the role of mir-155 in this process. CD14+ monocytes from peripheral blood (PBM) and synovial fluid (SFM) of RA patients were found to be resistant to spontaneous apoptosis relative to PBM from healthy control (HC) individuals. RA SFM were also resistant to anti-Fas-mediated apoptosis and displayed a gene expression profile distinct from HC and RA PBM populations. Gene expression profiling analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes in RA SFM vs. PBM were enriched for apoptosis-related genes and showed increased expression of the mir-155 precursor BIC. Following identification of potential mir-155 target transcripts by bioinformatic methods, we show increased levels of mature mir-155 expression in RA PBM and SFM vs. HC PBM and a corresponding decrease in SFM of two predicted mir-155-target mRNAs, apoptosis mediators CASP10 and APAF1. Using miR mimics, we demonstrate that mir-155 over-expression in healthy CD14+ cells conferred resistance to spontaneous apoptosis, but not Fas-induced death in these cells, and resulted in increased production of cytokines and chemokines. Collectively our data indicate that CD14+ cells from patients with RA show enhanced resistance to apoptosis, and suggest that an increase in mir-155 may partially contribute to this phenotype.

Rasmussen, T. K. (2016). "Follicular T helper cells and IL-21 in rheumatic diseases." Dan Med J 63(10)Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are lifelong diseases with increased mortality and chronic pains. They are both characterized by immunological imbalances causing the immune system attack and destroy the bodies own tissues (called autoimmune disease). The best treatment, we are currently able to offer these patients, cause significant side-effects and can not prevent significant loss of quality of life. At the heart of the disease mechanisms in RA and SLE are subsets of immune cells called T and B cells. These cell types produce proteins (called antibodies), which under normal circumstances protect the body against disease. In RA and SLE these cells produce antibodies that are directed at the bodies own tissues (called autoantibodies), causing inflammation and tissue damage. The cause of this loss of tolerance is still unknown. Interleukin 21 (IL-21) is thought to exert key functions in controlling and directing the T and B cell responses leading to formation of antibodies and autoantibodies alike. IL-21 is a signaling molecule secreted by a subpopulation of T cells called follicular T helper (Tfh) cells. IFNalpha is another signaling molecule of key importance in autoimmune disease. Stratification of SLE patients by their responsiveness to IFNalpha has proven a crucial tool in stratifying patients in terms of disease development and treatment response. The aim of this PhD study is to investigate the role of IL-21 and IFNalpha, and their effects on Tfh cells and B cells and the formation of autoantibodies in RA and SLE. The first part of this study addresses whether plasma levels of IL-21 influence disease activity in rheumatic disease. We further investigate the distribution of IL-21-producing Tfh cells in these patients. We find that IL-21 plasma levels correlate to disease activity and radiological progression in RA, and that the IL-21-producing Tfh cell are increased in the blood and synovial fluid of these patients. These findings support the idea that IL-21 and Tfh cells are linked to the development and perpetuation of these diseases. In the second part of this we investigate how small RNA molecules, called microRNAs, can regulate immunological processes. We find that microRNA-155 can regulate IL-21's capacity to signal, while microRNA-21 is important for survival of T cells. The third, and last part of this, concerns IFNalpha signaling and its impact on the development of SLE and the formation of autoantibodies. We find that IFNalpha signaling is altered in a murine model of SLE, and that inhibition of this signaling pathway leads to severe kidney disease. The latter is of key importance as inhibition of IFNalpha is currently in early trial as a new treatment form for SLE patients. In SLE patients, we find that IFNalpha responsiveness, as measured by a so-called IFN signature, is crucial in terms of development of the disease as well as serious complications such as kidney disease and involvement of the central nervous system. Interferon alpha does this by affecting intracellular signaling responses and the formation of autoantibodies. The data presented in this thesis supports that IL-21 and Tfh cells have a key role in the disease processes characterizing RA and SLE. We further describe a novel mechanism for microRNA-155 and microRNA-21 in regulating immunological processes in these diseases. Finally we show, that IFNalpha has important functions in the formation of autoantibodies in SLE. In conclusion, this thesis adds new and important knowledge on the interplay between Tfh cells and B cells and their formation of autoantibodies in rheumatic disease. This knowledge will guide and further the development of new treatment strategies to better patient outcome.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are lifelong diseases with increased mortality and chronic pains. They are both characterized by immunological imbalances causing the immune system attack and destroy the bodies own tissues (called autoimmune disease). The best treatment, we are currently able to offer these patients, cause significant side-effects and can not prevent significant loss of quality of life. At the heart of the disease mechanisms in RA and SLE are subsets of immune cells called T and B cells. These cell types produce proteins (called antibodies), which under normal circumstances protect the body against disease. In RA and SLE these cells produce antibodies that are directed at the bodies own tissues (called autoantibodies), causing inflammation and tissue damage. The cause of this loss of tolerance is still unknown. Interleukin 21 (IL-21) is thought to exert key functions in controlling and directing the T and B cell responses leading to formation of antibodies and autoantibodies alike. IL-21 is a signaling molecule secreted by a subpopulation of T cells called follicular T helper (Tfh) cells. IFNalpha is another signaling molecule of key importance in autoimmune disease. Stratification of SLE patients by their responsiveness to IFNalpha has proven a crucial tool in stratifying patients in terms of disease development and treatment response. The aim of this PhD study is to investigate the role of IL-21 and IFNalpha, and their effects on Tfh cells and B cells and the formation of autoantibodies in RA and SLE. The first part of this study addresses whether plasma levels of IL-21 influence disease activity in rheumatic disease. We further investigate the distribution of IL-21-producing Tfh cells in these patients. We find that IL-21 plasma levels correlate to disease activity and radiological progression in RA, and that the IL-21-producing Tfh cell are increased in the blood and synovial fluid of these patients. These findings support the idea that IL-21 and Tfh cells are linked to the development and perpetuation of these diseases. In the second part of this we investigate how small RNA molecules, called microRNAs, can regulate immunological processes. We find that microRNA-155 can regulate IL-21's capacity to signal, while microRNA-21 is important for survival of T cells. The third, and last part of this, concerns IFNalpha signaling and its impact on the development of SLE and the formation of autoantibodies. We find that IFNalpha signaling is altered in a murine model of SLE, and that inhibition of this signaling pathway leads to severe kidney disease. The latter is of key importance as inhibition of IFNalpha is currently in early trial as a new treatment form for SLE patients. In SLE patients, we find that IFNalpha responsiveness, as measured by a so-called IFN signature, is crucial in terms of development of the disease as well as serious complications such as kidney disease and involvement of the central nervous system. Interferon alpha does this by affecting intracellular signaling responses and the formation of autoantibodies. The data presented in this thesis supports that IL-21 and Tfh cells have a key role in the disease processes characterizing RA and SLE. We further describe a novel mechanism for microRNA-155 and microRNA-21 in regulating immunological processes in these diseases. Finally we show, that IFNalpha has important functions in the formation of autoantibodies in SLE. In conclusion, this thesis adds new and important knowledge on the interplay between Tfh cells and B cells and their formation of autoantibodies in rheumatic disease. This knowledge will guide and further the development of new treatment strategies to better patient outcome.

Rezaeepoor, M., M. Ganjalikhani-Hakemi, et al. (2018). "Semaphorin-3A as An Immune Modulator Is Suppressed by MicroRNA-145-5p." Cell J 20(1): 113-119. OBJECTIVES: Semaphorin-3A (SEMA3A) and its receptors are found on some immune cells and act as suppressors of immune cells over-activation. Considering the role of SEMA3A and its down-regulation in some autoimmune diseases, as well as our bioinformatics predictions, we assumed that miR-145-5p might affect SEMA3A expression. So, we aimed to determine the effect of miR-145-5p on SEMA3A gene expression level. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this experimental study, we evaluated the effect of miR-145-5p transfection on SEMA3A expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) using ELISA and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods. RESULTS: Our results showed that miR-145-5p is able to decrease SEMA3A expression at both protein and mRNA levels. These data confirmed our previous bioinformatic prediction about the inhibitory effect of miR-145-5p on SEMA3A expression. CONCLUSIONS: These results enlightened us about an unknown aspect of SEMA3A role in some autoimmune disorders like multiple sclerosis (MS) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and also proposed SEMA3A as a potential therapeutic approach.. OBJECTIVES: Semaphorin-3A (SEMA3A) and its receptors are found on some immune cells and act as suppressors of immune cells over-activation. Considering the role of SEMA3A and its down-regulation in some autoimmune diseases, as well as our bioinformatics predictions, we assumed that miR-145-5p might affect SEMA3A expression. So, we aimed to determine the effect of miR-145-5p on SEMA3A gene expression level. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this experimental study, we evaluated the effect of miR-145-5p transfection on SEMA3A expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) using ELISA and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods. RESULTS: Our results showed that miR-145-5p is able to decrease SEMA3A expression at both protein and mRNA levels. These data confirmed our previous bioinformatic prediction about the inhibitory effect of miR-145-5p on SEMA3A expression. CONCLUSIONS: These results enlightened us about an unknown aspect of SEMA3A role in some autoimmune disorders like multiple sclerosis (MS) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and also proposed SEMA3A as a potential therapeutic approach.

Roberts, S. B., E. Wootton, et al. (2015). "Epigenetics of osteoarticular diseases: recent developments." Rheumatol Int 35(8): 1293-1305. A variety of osteoarticular conditions possess an underlying genetic aetiology. Large-scale genome-wide association studies have identified several genetic loci associated with osteoarticular conditions, but were unable to fully account for their estimated heritability. Epigenetic modifications including DNA methylation, histone modification, nucleosome positioning, and microRNA expression may help account for this incomplete heritability. This articles reviews insights from epigenetic studies in osteoarticular diseases, focusing on osteoarthritis, but also examines recent advances in rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), ankylosing spondylitis, and sarcoma. Genome-wide methylation studies are permitting identification of novel candidate genes and molecular pathways, and the pathogenic mechanisms with altered methylation status are beginning to be elucidated. These findings are gradually translating into improved understanding of disease pathogenesis and clinical applications. Functional studies in osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and SLE are now identifying downstream molecular alterations that may confer disease susceptibility. Epigenetic markers are being validated as prognostic and therapeutic disease biomarkers in sarcoma, and clinical trials of hypomethylating agents as treatments for sarcoma are being conducted. In concert with advances in throughput and cost-efficiency of available technologies, future epigenetic research will enable greater characterisation and treatment for both common and rare osteoarticular diseases.. A variety of osteoarticular conditions possess an underlying genetic aetiology. Large-scale genome-wide association studies have identified several genetic loci associated with osteoarticular conditions, but were unable to fully account for their estimated heritability. Epigenetic modifications including DNA methylation, histone modification, nucleosome positioning, and microRNA expression may help account for this incomplete heritability. This articles reviews insights from epigenetic studies in osteoarticular diseases, focusing on osteoarthritis, but also examines recent advances in rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), ankylosing spondylitis, and sarcoma. Genome-wide methylation studies are permitting identification of novel candidate genes and molecular pathways, and the pathogenic mechanisms with altered methylation status are beginning to be elucidated. These findings are gradually translating into improved understanding of disease pathogenesis and clinical applications. Functional studies in osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and SLE are now identifying downstream molecular alterations that may confer disease susceptibility. Epigenetic markers are being validated as prognostic and therapeutic disease biomarkers in sarcoma, and clinical trials of hypomethylating agents as treatments for sarcoma are being conducted. In concert with advances in throughput and cost-efficiency of available technologies, future epigenetic research will enable greater characterisation and treatment for both common and rare osteoarticular diseases.

Ruedel, A., P. Dietrich, et al. (2015). "Expression and function of microRNA-188-5p in activated rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts." Int J Clin Exp Pathol 8(6): 6607-6616. Activated synovial fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis (RASF) play a critical role in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recent studies suggested that deregulation of microRNAs (miRs) affects the development and progression of RA. Therefore, we aimed to identify de-regulated miRs in RASF and to identify target genes that may contribute to the aggressive phenotype of RASF. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed a marked downregulation of miR-188-5p in synovial tissue samples of RA patients as well as in RASF. Exposure to the cytokine interleukine-1beta lead to a further downregulation of miR-188-5p expression levels compared to control cells. Re-expression of miR-188-5p in RASF by transient transfection significantly inhibited cell migration. However, miR-188-5p re-expression had no effects on glycosaminoglycan degradation or expression of repellent factors, which have been previously shown to affect the invasive behavior of RASF. In search for target genes of miR-188-5p in RASF we performed gene expression profiling in RASF and found a strong regulatory effect of miR-188-5p on the hyaluronan binding protein KIAA1199 as well as collagens COL1A1 and COL12A1, which was confirmed by qRT-PCR. In silico analysis revealed that KIAA1199 carries a 3'UTR binding site for miR-188-5p. COL1A1 and COL12A1 showed no binding site in the mRNA region, suggesting an indirect regulation of these two genes by miR-188-5p. In summary, our study showed that miR-188-5p is down-regulated in RA in vitro and in vivo, most likely triggered by an inflammatory environment. MiR-188-5p expression is correlated to the activation state of RASF and inhibits migration of these cells. Furthermore, miR-188-5p is directly and indirectly regulating the expression of genes, which may play a role in extracellular matrix formation and destruction in RA. Herewith, this study identified potential novel therapeutic targets to inhibit the development and progression of RA.. Activated synovial fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis (RASF) play a critical role in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recent studies suggested that deregulation of microRNAs (miRs) affects the development and progression of RA. Therefore, we aimed to identify de-regulated miRs in RASF and to identify target genes that may contribute to the aggressive phenotype of RASF. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed a marked downregulation of miR-188-5p in synovial tissue samples of RA patients as well as in RASF. Exposure to the cytokine interleukine-1beta lead to a further downregulation of miR-188-5p expression levels compared to control cells. Re-expression of miR-188-5p in RASF by transient transfection significantly inhibited cell migration. However, miR-188-5p re-expression had no effects on glycosaminoglycan degradation or expression of repellent factors, which have been previously shown to affect the invasive behavior of RASF. In search for target genes of miR-188-5p in RASF we performed gene expression profiling in RASF and found a strong regulatory effect of miR-188-5p on the hyaluronan binding protein KIAA1199 as well as collagens COL1A1 and COL12A1, which was confirmed by qRT-PCR. In silico analysis revealed that KIAA1199 carries a 3'UTR binding site for miR-188-5p. COL1A1 and COL12A1 showed no binding site in the mRNA region, suggesting an indirect regulation of these two genes by miR-188-5p. In summary, our study showed that miR-188-5p is down-regulated in RA in vitro and in vivo, most likely triggered by an inflammatory environment. MiR-188-5p expression is correlated to the activation state of RASF and inhibits migration of these cells. Furthermore, miR-188-5p is directly and indirectly regulating the expression of genes, which may play a role in extracellular matrix formation and destruction in RA. Herewith, this study identified potential novel therapeutic targets to inhibit the development and progression of RA.

Ruedel, A., P. Dietrich, et al. (2015). "Expression and function of microRNA-188-5p in activated rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts." Int J Clin Exp Pathol 8(5): 4953-4962. Activated synovial fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis (RASF) play a critical role in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recent studies suggested that deregulation of microRNAs (miRs) affects the development and progression of RA. Therefore, we aimed to identify de-regulated miRs in RASF and to identify target genes that may contribute to the aggressive phenotype of RASF. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed a marked downregulation of miR-188-5p in synovial tissue samples of RA patients as well as in RASF. Exposure to the cytokine interleukine-1beta lead to a further downregulation of miR-188-5p expression levels compared to control cells. Re-expression of miR-188-5p in RASF by transient transfection significantly inhibited cell migration. However, miR-188-5p re-expression had no effects on glycosaminoglycan degradation or expression of repellent factors, which have been previously shown to affect the invasive behavior of RASF. In search for target genes of miR-188-5p in RASF we performed gene expression profiling in RASF and found a strong regulatory effect of miR-188-5p on the hyaluronan binding protein KIAA1199 as well as collagens COL1A1 and COL12A1, which was confirmed by qRT-PCR. In silico analysis revealed that KIAA1199 carries a 3'UTR binding site for miR-188-5p. COL1A1and COL12A1 showed no binding site in the mRNA region, suggesting an indirect regulation of these two genes by miR-188-5p. In summary, our study showed that miR-188-5p is down-regulated in RA in vitro and in vivo, most likely triggered by an inflammatory environment. MiR-188-5p expression is correlated to the activation state of RASF and inhibits migration of these cells. Furthermore, miR-188-5p is directly and indirectly regulating the expression of genes, which may play a role in extracellular matrix formation and destruction in RA. Herewith, this study identified potential novel therapeutic targets to inhibit the development and progression of RA.. Activated synovial fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis (RASF) play a critical role in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recent studies suggested that deregulation of microRNAs (miRs) affects the development and progression of RA. Therefore, we aimed to identify de-regulated miRs in RASF and to identify target genes that may contribute to the aggressive phenotype of RASF. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed a marked downregulation of miR-188-5p in synovial tissue samples of RA patients as well as in RASF. Exposure to the cytokine interleukine-1beta lead to a further downregulation of miR-188-5p expression levels compared to control cells. Re-expression of miR-188-5p in RASF by transient transfection significantly inhibited cell migration. However, miR-188-5p re-expression had no effects on glycosaminoglycan degradation or expression of repellent factors, which have been previously shown to affect the invasive behavior of RASF. In search for target genes of miR-188-5p in RASF we performed gene expression profiling in RASF and found a strong regulatory effect of miR-188-5p on the hyaluronan binding protein KIAA1199 as well as collagens COL1A1 and COL12A1, which was confirmed by qRT-PCR. In silico analysis revealed that KIAA1199 carries a 3'UTR binding site for miR-188-5p. COL1A1and COL12A1 showed no binding site in the mRNA region, suggesting an indirect regulation of these two genes by miR-188-5p. In summary, our study showed that miR-188-5p is down-regulated in RA in vitro and in vivo, most likely triggered by an inflammatory environment. MiR-188-5p expression is correlated to the activation state of RASF and inhibits migration of these cells. Furthermore, miR-188-5p is directly and indirectly regulating the expression of genes, which may play a role in extracellular matrix formation and destruction in RA. Herewith, this study identified potential novel therapeutic targets to inhibit the development and progression of RA.

Salehi, E., R. Eftekhari, et al. (2015). "MicroRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis." Clin Rheumatol 34(4): 615-628. The role of genetic and epigenetic factors in the development of rheumatic diseases has been an interesting field of research over the past decades all around the world. Research on the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has been active and ongoing, and investigations have attempted to use miRNAs as biomarkers in disease diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. This review focuses on experimental researches in the field of miRNAs and RA to present the data available up to this date and includes researches searched by keywords "microRNA" and "rheumatoid arthritis" in PubMed from 2008 to January 2015. All references were also searched for related papers. miRNAs are shown to act as proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory agents in diverse cell types, and their role seems to be regulatory in most instances. Researchers have evaluated miRNAs in patients compared to controls or have investigated their role by overexpressing or silencing them. Multiple targets have been identified in vivo, in vitro, or in silico, and the researches still continue to show their efficacy in clinical settings.. The role of genetic and epigenetic factors in the development of rheumatic diseases has been an interesting field of research over the past decades all around the world. Research on the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has been active and ongoing, and investigations have attempted to use miRNAs as biomarkers in disease diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. This review focuses on experimental researches in the field of miRNAs and RA to present the data available up to this date and includes researches searched by keywords "microRNA" and "rheumatoid arthritis" in PubMed from 2008 to January 2015. All references were also searched for related papers. miRNAs are shown to act as proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory agents in diverse cell types, and their role seems to be regulatory in most instances. Researchers have evaluated miRNAs in patients compared to controls or have investigated their role by overexpressing or silencing them. Multiple targets have been identified in vivo, in vitro, or in silico, and the researches still continue to show their efficacy in clinical settings.

Sanders, A. R., H. H. Goring, et al. (2013). "Transcriptome study of differential expression in schizophrenia." Hum Mol Genet 22(24): 5001-5014. Schizophrenia genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified common SNPs, rare copy number variants (CNVs) and a large polygenic contribution to illness risk, but biological mechanisms remain unclear. Bioinformatic analyses of significantly associated genetic variants point to a large role for regulatory variants. To identify gene expression abnormalities in schizophrenia, we generated whole-genome gene expression profiles using microarrays on lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) from 413 cases and 446 controls. Regression analysis identified 95 transcripts differentially expressed by affection status at a genome-wide false discovery rate (FDR) of 0.05, while simultaneously controlling for confounding effects. These transcripts represented 89 genes with functions such as neurotransmission, gene regulation, cell cycle progression, differentiation, apoptosis, microRNA (miRNA) processing and immunity. This functional diversity is consistent with schizophrenia's likely significant pathophysiological heterogeneity. The overall enrichment of immune-related genes among those differentially expressed by affection status is consistent with hypothesized immune contributions to schizophrenia risk. The observed differential expression of extended major histocompatibility complex (xMHC) region histones (HIST1H2BD, HIST1H2BC, HIST1H2BH, HIST1H2BG and HIST1H4K) converges with the genetic evidence from GWAS, which find the xMHC to be the most significant susceptibility locus. Among the differentially expressed immune-related genes, B3GNT2 is implicated in autoimmune disorders previously tied to schizophrenia risk (rheumatoid arthritis and Graves' disease), and DICER1 is pivotal in miRNA processing potentially linking to miRNA alterations in schizophrenia (e.g. MIR137, the second strongest GWAS finding). Our analysis provides novel candidate genes for further study to assess their potential contribution to schizophrenia.. Schizophrenia genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified common SNPs, rare copy number variants (CNVs) and a large polygenic contribution to illness risk, but biological mechanisms remain unclear. Bioinformatic analyses of significantly associated genetic variants point to a large role for regulatory variants. To identify gene expression abnormalities in schizophrenia, we generated whole-genome gene expression profiles using microarrays on lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) from 413 cases and 446 controls. Regression analysis identified 95 transcripts differentially expressed by affection status at a genome-wide false discovery rate (FDR) of 0.05, while simultaneously controlling for confounding effects. These transcripts represented 89 genes with functions such as neurotransmission, gene regulation, cell cycle progression, differentiation, apoptosis, microRNA (miRNA) processing and immunity. This functional diversity is consistent with schizophrenia's likely significant pathophysiological heterogeneity. The overall enrichment of immune-related genes among those differentially expressed by affection status is consistent with hypothesized immune contributions to schizophrenia risk. The observed differential expression of extended major histocompatibility complex (xMHC) region histones (HIST1H2BD, HIST1H2BC, HIST1H2BH, HIST1H2BG and HIST1H4K) converges with the genetic evidence from GWAS, which find the xMHC to be the most significant susceptibility locus. Among the differentially expressed immune-related genes, B3GNT2 is implicated in autoimmune disorders previously tied to schizophrenia risk (rheumatoid arthritis and Graves' disease), and DICER1 is pivotal in miRNA processing potentially linking to miRNA alterations in schizophrenia (e.g. MIR137, the second strongest GWAS finding). Our analysis provides novel candidate genes for further study to assess their potential contribution to schizophrenia.

Schulert, G. S., N. Fall, et al. (2016). "Monocyte MicroRNA Expression in Active Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Implicates MicroRNA-125a-5p in Polarized Monocyte Phenotypes." Arthritis Rheumatol 68(9): 2300-2313. OBJECTIVE: Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is an inflammatory disease of childhood in which cells of the monomyelocytoid lineage are thought to be key effector cells. Monocytes from patients with systemic JIA have a distinct phenotype, with features of both M1 and M2 alternative activation. MicroRNAs are critical regulators of monocyte polarization and function, but cellular microRNAs in systemic JIA have not been examined systematically. METHODS: MicroRNA TaqMan arrays were used to determine the expression profiles of monocytes from children with systemic JIA. Expression of microRNA-125a-5p (miR-125a-5p) and its contribution to monocyte polarization were examined using in vitro-polarized THP-1 cells and primary human monocytes. RESULTS: A total of 110 microRNAs were found to be differentially expressed in monocytes from patients with active systemic JIA, including molecules implicated in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis, cytokine production, and monocyte polarization. MicroRNA-125a-5p was identified as being highly up-regulated in monocytes from children with active systemic JIA, as compared to those from children with clinically inactive JIA or those with active polyarticular JIA, and correlated with systemic features of the disease. In vitro, monocyte miR125a-5p expression was increased after polarization under M2b or M2c conditions. Inhibition of miR-125a-5p showed that this microRNA contributed to full polarization of M2b regulatory macrophages. In contrast, miR-125a-5p overexpression enhanced M2b polarization and altered other polarized populations, including increasing the production of M2 markers. Indeed, in vitro overexpression of this microRNA altered the macrophage phenotype toward that observed in systemic JIA. CONCLUSION: Children with active systemic JIA have profound alterations in the expression of microRNAs that are implicated in monocyte function and polarization. One of these microRNAs, miR-125a-5p, is also a regulator of immunoregulatory M2b macrophages.. OBJECTIVE: Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is an inflammatory disease of childhood in which cells of the monomyelocytoid lineage are thought to be key effector cells. Monocytes from patients with systemic JIA have a distinct phenotype, with features of both M1 and M2 alternative activation. MicroRNAs are critical regulators of monocyte polarization and function, but cellular microRNAs in systemic JIA have not been examined systematically. METHODS: MicroRNA TaqMan arrays were used to determine the expression profiles of monocytes from children with systemic JIA. Expression of microRNA-125a-5p (miR-125a-5p) and its contribution to monocyte polarization were examined using in vitro-polarized THP-1 cells and primary human monocytes. RESULTS: A total of 110 microRNAs were found to be differentially expressed in monocytes from patients with active systemic JIA, including molecules implicated in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis, cytokine production, and monocyte polarization. MicroRNA-125a-5p was identified as being highly up-regulated in monocytes from children with active systemic JIA, as compared to those from children with clinically inactive JIA or those with active polyarticular JIA, and correlated with systemic features of the disease. In vitro, monocyte miR125a-5p expression was increased after polarization under M2b or M2c conditions. Inhibition of miR-125a-5p showed that this microRNA contributed to full polarization of M2b regulatory macrophages. In contrast, miR-125a-5p overexpression enhanced M2b polarization and altered other polarized populations, including increasing the production of M2 markers. Indeed, in vitro overexpression of this microRNA altered the macrophage phenotype toward that observed in systemic JIA. CONCLUSION: Children with active systemic JIA have profound alterations in the expression of microRNAs that are implicated in monocyte function and polarization. One of these microRNAs, miR-125a-5p, is also a regulator of immunoregulatory M2b macrophages.

Sebastiani, G. D., V. Fulci, et al. (2011). "Over-expression of miR-223 in T-lymphocytes of early rheumatoid arthritis patients." Clin Exp Rheumatol 29(6): 1058-1059. . 
Selmi, C. (2014). "Autoimmunity in 2013." Clin Rev Allergy Immunol 47(1): 100-109. The peer-reviewed publications in the field of autoimmunity published in 2013 represented a significant proportion of immunology articles and grew since the previous year to indicate that more immune-mediated phenomena may recognize an autoimmune mechanism and illustrated by osteoarthritis and atherosclerosis. As a result, our understanding of the mechanisms of autoimmunity is becoming the paradigm for translational research in which the progress in disease pathogenesis for both tolerance breakdown and inflammation perpetuation is rapidly followed by new treatment approaches and clinical management changes. The similarities across the autoimmune disease spectrum outnumber differences, particularly when treatments are compared. Indeed, the therapeutics of autoimmune diseases are based on a growing armamentarium that currently includes monoclonal antibodies and small molecules which act by targeting molecular markers or intracellular mediators with high specificity. Among the over 100 conditions considered as autoimmune, the common grounds are well illustrated by the data reported for systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis or by the plethora of studies on Th17 cells and biomarkers, particularly serum autoantibodies. Further, we are particularly intrigued by studies on the genomics, epigenetics, and microRNA at different stages of disease development or on the safe and effective use of abatacept acting on the costimulation of T and B cells in rheumatoid arthritis. We are convinced that the data published in 2013 represent a promising background for future developments that will exponentially impact the work of laboratory and clinical scientists over the next years.. The peer-reviewed publications in the field of autoimmunity published in 2013 represented a significant proportion of immunology articles and grew since the previous year to indicate that more immune-mediated phenomena may recognize an autoimmune mechanism and illustrated by osteoarthritis and atherosclerosis. As a result, our understanding of the mechanisms of autoimmunity is becoming the paradigm for translational research in which the progress in disease pathogenesis for both tolerance breakdown and inflammation perpetuation is rapidly followed by new treatment approaches and clinical management changes. The similarities across the autoimmune disease spectrum outnumber differences, particularly when treatments are compared. Indeed, the therapeutics of autoimmune diseases are based on a growing armamentarium that currently includes monoclonal antibodies and small molecules which act by targeting molecular markers or intracellular mediators with high specificity. Among the over 100 conditions considered as autoimmune, the common grounds are well illustrated by the data reported for systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis or by the plethora of studies on Th17 cells and biomarkers, particularly serum autoantibodies. Further, we are particularly intrigued by studies on the genomics, epigenetics, and microRNA at different stages of disease development or on the safe and effective use of abatacept acting on the costimulation of T and B cells in rheumatoid arthritis. We are convinced that the data published in 2013 represent a promising background for future developments that will exponentially impact the work of laboratory and clinical scientists over the next years.

Selmi, C. (2014). "Hot topics in autoimmune diseases: perspectives from the 2013 Asian Congress of Autoimmunity." Autoimmun Rev 13(8): 781-787. Our understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms and possible treatments of autoimmune diseases has significantly increased over the past decade. Nonetheless, numerous major issues remain open and such issues span from epidemiology to clinimetrics and from the role of infectious agents to the search for accurate biomarkers in paradigmatic conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and spondyloarthropathies. In the case of cardiovascular comorbidities of autoimmune diseases or, more generally, the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, fascinating evidence points to a central role of autoimmunity and metabolic dysfunctions and a possible role of therapies targeting inflammation to ameliorate both conditions. Basic science and translational medicine contribute to identify common mechanisms that underlie different autoimmune diseases, as in the case of tumor necrosis factor alpha, and more recently vitamin D, autoantibodies, T and B regulatory cells, and microRNA. Finally, new therapies are expected to significantly change our approach to autoimmune diseases, as represented by the recent FDA approval of the first oral JAK inhibitor. The present article moves from the major topics that were discussed at the 2013 Asian Congress of Autoimmunity in Hong Kong to illustrate the most recent data from leading journals in autoimmunity and immunology.. Our understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms and possible treatments of autoimmune diseases has significantly increased over the past decade. Nonetheless, numerous major issues remain open and such issues span from epidemiology to clinimetrics and from the role of infectious agents to the search for accurate biomarkers in paradigmatic conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and spondyloarthropathies. In the case of cardiovascular comorbidities of autoimmune diseases or, more generally, the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, fascinating evidence points to a central role of autoimmunity and metabolic dysfunctions and a possible role of therapies targeting inflammation to ameliorate both conditions. Basic science and translational medicine contribute to identify common mechanisms that underlie different autoimmune diseases, as in the case of tumor necrosis factor alpha, and more recently vitamin D, autoantibodies, T and B regulatory cells, and microRNA. Finally, new therapies are expected to significantly change our approach to autoimmune diseases, as represented by the recent FDA approval of the first oral JAK inhibitor. The present article moves from the major topics that were discussed at the 2013 Asian Congress of Autoimmunity in Hong Kong to illustrate the most recent data from leading journals in autoimmunity and immunology.

Semaan, N., L. Frenzel, et al. (2011). "miR-346 controls release of TNF-alpha protein and stability of its mRNA in rheumatoid arthritis via tristetraprolin stabilization." PLoS One 6(5): e19827. TNF-alpha is a major cytokine implicated in rheumatoid arthritis. Its expression is regulated both at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels and recent data demonstrated that miRNAs are implicated in TNF-alpha response in macrophages. LPS-activated FLS isolated from RA patients express TNF-alpha mRNA but not the mature protein. This prompted us to look for miRNAs which could be implicated in this anti-inflammatory effect. Using a microarray, we found two miRNAs, miR-125b and miR-939 predicted to target the 3'-UTR of TNF-alpha mRNA, to be up-regulated in RA FLS in response to LPS, but their repression did not restore mature TNF-alpha expression in FLS. We showed previously that miR-346, which is upregulated in LPS-activated FLS, inhibited Btk expression that stabilized TNF-alpha mRNA. Blocking miR-346 reestablished TNF-alpha expression in activated FLS. Interestingly, transfection of miR-346 in LPS-activated THP-1 cells inhibited TNF-alpha secretion. We also demonstrated that TTP, a RNA binding protein which inhibited TNF-alpha synthesis, is overexpressed in activated FLS and that inhibition of miR-346 decreases its expression. Conversely, transfection of miR-346 in LPS-activated THP-1 cells increased TTP mRNA expression and inhibited TNF-alpha release. These results indicate that miR-346 controls TNF-alpha synthesis by regulating TTP expression.. TNF-alpha is a major cytokine implicated in rheumatoid arthritis. Its expression is regulated both at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels and recent data demonstrated that miRNAs are implicated in TNF-alpha response in macrophages. LPS-activated FLS isolated from RA patients express TNF-alpha mRNA but not the mature protein. This prompted us to look for miRNAs which could be implicated in this anti-inflammatory effect. Using a microarray, we found two miRNAs, miR-125b and miR-939 predicted to target the 3'-UTR of TNF-alpha mRNA, to be up-regulated in RA FLS in response to LPS, but their repression did not restore mature TNF-alpha expression in FLS. We showed previously that miR-346, which is upregulated in LPS-activated FLS, inhibited Btk expression that stabilized TNF-alpha mRNA. Blocking miR-346 reestablished TNF-alpha expression in activated FLS. Interestingly, transfection of miR-346 in LPS-activated THP-1 cells inhibited TNF-alpha secretion. We also demonstrated that TTP, a RNA binding protein which inhibited TNF-alpha synthesis, is overexpressed in activated FLS and that inhibition of miR-346 decreases its expression. Conversely, transfection of miR-346 in LPS-activated THP-1 cells increased TTP mRNA expression and inhibited TNF-alpha release. These results indicate that miR-346 controls TNF-alpha synthesis by regulating TTP expression.

Shaker, O. G., N. A. El Boghdady, et al. (2018). "Association of MiRNA-146a, MiRNA-499, IRAK1 and PADI4 Polymorphisms with Rheumatoid Arthritis in Egyptian Population." Cell Physiol Biochem 46(6): 2239-2249. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease affecting up to 1% of the population worldwide. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether miRNA-146a rs2910164, miRNA-499 rs3746444, IRAK1 rs3027898 and PADI4 rs1748033 polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to RA in Egyptians and whether they influence disease severity and activity. METHODS: The study was performed on 104 unrelated RA patients and 112 healthy subjects. RA patients were further subdivided into active and inactive RA groups. Polymorphisms were genotyped by using real-time polymerase chain reaction with TaqMan allelic discrimination assay. RESULTS: Significant differences in the frequency of miRNA-146a rs2910164, miRNA-499 rs3746444, IRAK1 rs3027898 and PADI4 rs1748033 alleles and genotypes were observed between RA patients and controls. Only CA and AA genotypes of IRAK1 rs3027898 shows a significant difference between active and inactive subgroups. MiRNA-146a rs2910164 and IRAK1 rs3027898 polymorphisms were a risk factor for predisposition to RA in codominant and dominant tested inheritance models, while, the miRNA-499 rs3746444 and PADI4 rs1748033 polymorphisms were a risk factor in codominant and recessive one. CG and GG genotypes of miRNA-146a rs2910164 were associated with positive erosions. CA genotype of IRAK1 rs3027898 was associated with low disease activity and negative erosions, while, the AA genotype was associated with high disease activity. CC genotype of PADI4 rs1748033 was associated with negative rheumatoid factor. CONCLUSION: The 4 studied SNPs were likely to play an important role in the susceptibility to RA and can influence disease severity and activity in Egyptian population.. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease affecting up to 1% of the population worldwide. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether miRNA-146a rs2910164, miRNA-499 rs3746444, IRAK1 rs3027898 and PADI4 rs1748033 polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to RA in Egyptians and whether they influence disease severity and activity. METHODS: The study was performed on 104 unrelated RA patients and 112 healthy subjects. RA patients were further subdivided into active and inactive RA groups. Polymorphisms were genotyped by using real-time polymerase chain reaction with TaqMan allelic discrimination assay. RESULTS: Significant differences in the frequency of miRNA-146a rs2910164, miRNA-499 rs3746444, IRAK1 rs3027898 and PADI4 rs1748033 alleles and genotypes were observed between RA patients and controls. Only CA and AA genotypes of IRAK1 rs3027898 shows a significant difference between active and inactive subgroups. MiRNA-146a rs2910164 and IRAK1 rs3027898 polymorphisms were a risk factor for predisposition to RA in codominant and dominant tested inheritance models, while, the miRNA-499 rs3746444 and PADI4 rs1748033 polymorphisms were a risk factor in codominant and recessive one. CG and GG genotypes of miRNA-146a rs2910164 were associated with positive erosions. CA genotype of IRAK1 rs3027898 was associated with low disease activity and negative erosions, while, the AA genotype was associated with high disease activity. CC genotype of PADI4 rs1748033 was associated with negative rheumatoid factor. CONCLUSION: The 4 studied SNPs were likely to play an important role in the susceptibility to RA and can influence disease severity and activity in Egyptian population.

Sharma, A. R., G. Sharma, et al. (2016). "miRNA-Regulated Key Components of Cytokine Signaling Pathways and Inflammation in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Med Res Rev 36(3): 425-439. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory disease that primarily affects joints. This autoimmune disease pathogenesis is related to cytokine signaling. In this review, we have described the existence of various microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in regulation of major protein cascades of cytokine signaling associated with RA. Moreover, we have tried to portray the role of various miRNAs in different cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, IL-17, IL-18, IL-21, and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GMCSF). Along with this, we have also discussed the miRNA regulation in T cells and synovial tissue. From the analyzed data, we suggest that miR-146a and miR-155 might be the potential therapeutic target for treating RA. The insight illustrated in this review will offer a better understanding of the role of miRNA in cytokine signaling pathways and inflammation during RA and could project them as diagnostic or therapeutic agents in near future.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory disease that primarily affects joints. This autoimmune disease pathogenesis is related to cytokine signaling. In this review, we have described the existence of various microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in regulation of major protein cascades of cytokine signaling associated with RA. Moreover, we have tried to portray the role of various miRNAs in different cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, IL-17, IL-18, IL-21, and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GMCSF). Along with this, we have also discussed the miRNA regulation in T cells and synovial tissue. From the analyzed data, we suggest that miR-146a and miR-155 might be the potential therapeutic target for treating RA. The insight illustrated in this review will offer a better understanding of the role of miRNA in cytokine signaling pathways and inflammation during RA and could project them as diagnostic or therapeutic agents in near future.

Shi, D. L., G. R. Shi, et al. (2016). "MicroRNA-27a Inhibits Cell Migration and Invasion of Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes by Targeting Follistatin-Like Protein 1 in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Mol Cells 39(8): 611-618. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) with aberrant expression of microRNA (miRNA) are critical pathogenic regulators in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Previous studies have found that overexpression or silencing of miRNA can contribute to the development of miRNA-based therapeutics in arthritis models. In this study, we explored the effects of miR-27a on cell migration and invasion in cultured FLS from RA patients. We found that miR-27a was markedly downregulated in the serum, synovial tissue, and FLS of RA patients. Meanwhile, the expression of follistatin-like protein 1 (FSTL1) was upregulated, which suggests that FSTL1 plays a key role in RA development. The results of a Transwell assay showed that miR-27a inhibited FLS migration and invasion. However, miR-27a inhibition promoted the migration and invasion of FLS. In addition, the down-regulated expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP9, and MMP13) and Rho family proteins (Rac1, Cdc42, and RhoA) was detected after treatment with miR-27a in RA-FLS by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and western blot analysis. Then, a luciferase reporter assay validated that miR-27a targeted the 3-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of FSTL1. Moreover, miR-27a caused a significant decrease of FSTL1. In addition, the expression of TLR4 and NFkappaB was inhibited by miR-27a but increased by FSTL1 overexpression. In conclusion, we found that miR-27a inhibited cell migration and invasion of RA-FLS by targeting FSTL1 and restraining the TLR4/NFkappaB pathway.. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) with aberrant expression of microRNA (miRNA) are critical pathogenic regulators in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Previous studies have found that overexpression or silencing of miRNA can contribute to the development of miRNA-based therapeutics in arthritis models. In this study, we explored the effects of miR-27a on cell migration and invasion in cultured FLS from RA patients. We found that miR-27a was markedly downregulated in the serum, synovial tissue, and FLS of RA patients. Meanwhile, the expression of follistatin-like protein 1 (FSTL1) was upregulated, which suggests that FSTL1 plays a key role in RA development. The results of a Transwell assay showed that miR-27a inhibited FLS migration and invasion. However, miR-27a inhibition promoted the migration and invasion of FLS. In addition, the down-regulated expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP9, and MMP13) and Rho family proteins (Rac1, Cdc42, and RhoA) was detected after treatment with miR-27a in RA-FLS by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and western blot analysis. Then, a luciferase reporter assay validated that miR-27a targeted the 3-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of FSTL1. Moreover, miR-27a caused a significant decrease of FSTL1. In addition, the expression of TLR4 and NFkappaB was inhibited by miR-27a but increased by FSTL1 overexpression. In conclusion, we found that miR-27a inhibited cell migration and invasion of RA-FLS by targeting FSTL1 and restraining the TLR4/NFkappaB pathway.

Shi, J., K. Guo, et al. (2018). "miR4865p is upregulated in osteoarthritis and inhibits chondrocyte proliferation and migration by suppressing SMAD2." Mol Med Rep 18(1): 502-508. Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis and is caused by the breakdown of joint cartilage. The present study aimed to investigate an effective method for the treatment of OA. It was demonstrated that, compared with other patients, patients with OA exhibited lower mRNA expression levels of SMAD family member 2 (SMAD2). MicroRNA (miR)4865p was predicted to bind with SMAD2, which was verified by dualluciferase reporter assay. Compared withcontrol patients who had no known history of OA or rheumatoid arthritis, patients with OA exhibited higher miR4865p expression level. Treatment with miR4865p mimics inhibited proliferation and migration of CHON001 human chondrocytes, and also inhibited the expression levels of type II collagen and aggrecan. However, treatment with a miR4865p inhibitor promoted proliferation and migration, and the expression of type II collagen and aggrecan. Short interfering RNAdirected silencing of SMAD2 reversed the upregulated proliferation and migration and the expression level of type II collagen and aggrecan induced by the miR4865p inhibitor. In conclusion, the results of the present study indicated that miR4865p was upregulated in OA and may inhibit chondrocyte proliferation and migration by suppressing SMAD2.. Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis and is caused by the breakdown of joint cartilage. The present study aimed to investigate an effective method for the treatment of OA. It was demonstrated that, compared with other patients, patients with OA exhibited lower mRNA expression levels of SMAD family member 2 (SMAD2). MicroRNA (miR)4865p was predicted to bind with SMAD2, which was verified by dualluciferase reporter assay. Compared withcontrol patients who had no known history of OA or rheumatoid arthritis, patients with OA exhibited higher miR4865p expression level. Treatment with miR4865p mimics inhibited proliferation and migration of CHON001 human chondrocytes, and also inhibited the expression levels of type II collagen and aggrecan. However, treatment with a miR4865p inhibitor promoted proliferation and migration, and the expression of type II collagen and aggrecan. Short interfering RNAdirected silencing of SMAD2 reversed the upregulated proliferation and migration and the expression level of type II collagen and aggrecan induced by the miR4865p inhibitor. In conclusion, the results of the present study indicated that miR4865p was upregulated in OA and may inhibit chondrocyte proliferation and migration by suppressing SMAD2.

Shibuya, H., T. Nakasa, et al. (2013). "Overexpression of microRNA-223 in rheumatoid arthritis synovium controls osteoclast differentiation." Mod Rheumatol 23(4): 674-685. OBJECTIVES: MicroRNAs, a class of noncoding RNAs, play roles in human diseases. MicroRNA-223 (miR-223) is reported to play critical roles in osteoclastogenesis. The purpose of this study was to analyze the expression pattern of miR-223 in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovium and examine the suppression of osteoclastogenesis from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) by overexpression of miR-223. METHODS: Expression of miR-223 in synovium from RA patients was analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and section in situ hybridization. MiR-223 was overexpressed in an osteoclastogenesis coculture system with PBMC and RA synovial fibroblast. At 3 weeks after transfection of double-stranded miR-223, the formation of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-stained multinucleated cells was analyzed to evaluate the inhibitory effect of miR-223 on osteoclastogenesis. RESULTS: MiR-223 was more highly expressed in RA synovium than in osteoarthritis (OA) synovium due to the increased number of miR-223-positive cells in RA synovium. MiR-223 was expressed in the superficial and sublining layers, and macrophages, monocytes, and CD4 T cells also expressed miR-223. The number of TRAP-positive multinucleated cells was significantly decreased by overexpression of miR-223 in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of osteoclastogenesis marker genes was significantly down-regulated by miR-223 overexpression. CONCLUSION: MiR-223 is intensely expressed in RA synovium, and overexpression of miR-223 suppresses osteoclastogenesis in vitro. This study demonstrates the possibility of gene therapy with miR-223 to treat bone destruction in RA patients.. OBJECTIVES: MicroRNAs, a class of noncoding RNAs, play roles in human diseases. MicroRNA-223 (miR-223) is reported to play critical roles in osteoclastogenesis. The purpose of this study was to analyze the expression pattern of miR-223 in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovium and examine the suppression of osteoclastogenesis from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) by overexpression of miR-223. METHODS: Expression of miR-223 in synovium from RA patients was analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and section in situ hybridization. MiR-223 was overexpressed in an osteoclastogenesis coculture system with PBMC and RA synovial fibroblast. At 3 weeks after transfection of double-stranded miR-223, the formation of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-stained multinucleated cells was analyzed to evaluate the inhibitory effect of miR-223 on osteoclastogenesis. RESULTS: MiR-223 was more highly expressed in RA synovium than in osteoarthritis (OA) synovium due to the increased number of miR-223-positive cells in RA synovium. MiR-223 was expressed in the superficial and sublining layers, and macrophages, monocytes, and CD4 T cells also expressed miR-223. The number of TRAP-positive multinucleated cells was significantly decreased by overexpression of miR-223 in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of osteoclastogenesis marker genes was significantly down-regulated by miR-223 overexpression. CONCLUSION: MiR-223 is intensely expressed in RA synovium, and overexpression of miR-223 suppresses osteoclastogenesis in vitro. This study demonstrates the possibility of gene therapy with miR-223 to treat bone destruction in RA patients.

Shmaryahu, A., M. Carrasco, et al. (2014). "Prediction of bacterial microRNAs and possible targets in human cell transcriptome." J Microbiol 52(6): 482-489. Recent studies have examined gene transfer from bacteria to humans that would result in vertical inheritance. Bacterial DNA appears to integrate into the human somatic genome through an RNA intermediate, and such integrations are detected more frequently in tumors than normal samples and in RNA than DNA samples. Also, vertebrate viruses encode products that interfere with the RNA silencing machinery, suggesting that RNA silencing may indeed be important for antiviral responses in vertebrates. RNA silencing in response to virus infection could be due to microRNAs encoded by either the virus or the host. We hypothesized that bacterial expression of RNA molecules with secondary structures is potentially able to generate miRNA molecules that can interact with the human host mRNA during bacterial infection. To test this hypothesis, we developed a pipeline-based bioinformatics approach to identify putative micro-RNAs derived from bacterial RNAs that may have the potential to regulate gene expression of the human host cell. Our results suggest that 68 bacterial RNAs predicted from 37 different bacterial genomes have predicted secondary structures potentially able to generate putative microRNAs that may interact with messenger RNAs of genes involved in 47 different human diseases. As an example, we examined the effect of transfecting three putative microRNAs into human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells. The results show that the bacterially derived microRNA sequence can significantly regulate the expression of the respective target human gene. We suggest that the study of these predicted microRNAs may yield important clues as to how the human host cell processes involved in human diseases like cancer, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and others may respond to a particular bacterial environment.. Recent studies have examined gene transfer from bacteria to humans that would result in vertical inheritance. Bacterial DNA appears to integrate into the human somatic genome through an RNA intermediate, and such integrations are detected more frequently in tumors than normal samples and in RNA than DNA samples. Also, vertebrate viruses encode products that interfere with the RNA silencing machinery, suggesting that RNA silencing may indeed be important for antiviral responses in vertebrates. RNA silencing in response to virus infection could be due to microRNAs encoded by either the virus or the host. We hypothesized that bacterial expression of RNA molecules with secondary structures is potentially able to generate miRNA molecules that can interact with the human host mRNA during bacterial infection. To test this hypothesis, we developed a pipeline-based bioinformatics approach to identify putative micro-RNAs derived from bacterial RNAs that may have the potential to regulate gene expression of the human host cell. Our results suggest that 68 bacterial RNAs predicted from 37 different bacterial genomes have predicted secondary structures potentially able to generate putative microRNAs that may interact with messenger RNAs of genes involved in 47 different human diseases. As an example, we examined the effect of transfecting three putative microRNAs into human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells. The results show that the bacterially derived microRNA sequence can significantly regulate the expression of the respective target human gene. We suggest that the study of these predicted microRNAs may yield important clues as to how the human host cell processes involved in human diseases like cancer, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and others may respond to a particular bacterial environment.

Simpson, L. J. and K. M. Ansel (2015). "MicroRNA regulation of lymphocyte tolerance and autoimmunity." J Clin Invest 125(6): 2242-2249. Understanding the cell-intrinsic cues that permit self-reactivity in lymphocytes, and therefore autoimmunity, requires an understanding of the transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression in these cells. In this Review, we address seminal and recent research on microRNA (miRNA) regulation of central and peripheral tolerance. Human and mouse studies demonstrate that the PI3K pathway is a critical point of miRNA regulation of immune cell development and function that affects the development of autoimmunity. We also discuss how miRNA expression profiling in human autoimmune diseases has inspired mechanistic studies of miRNA function in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, type 1 diabetes, and asthma.. Understanding the cell-intrinsic cues that permit self-reactivity in lymphocytes, and therefore autoimmunity, requires an understanding of the transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression in these cells. In this Review, we address seminal and recent research on microRNA (miRNA) regulation of central and peripheral tolerance. Human and mouse studies demonstrate that the PI3K pathway is a critical point of miRNA regulation of immune cell development and function that affects the development of autoimmunity. We also discuss how miRNA expression profiling in human autoimmune diseases has inspired mechanistic studies of miRNA function in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, type 1 diabetes, and asthma.

Singh, R. P., I. Massachi, et al. (2013). "The role of miRNA in inflammation and autoimmunity." Autoimmun Rev 12(12): 1160-1165. miRNAs are small non-coding RNA molecules that modulate the expression of multiple protein-encoding genes at the post-transcriptional level. They have recently been recognized as powerful regulators of numerous genes and pathways in the pathogenesis of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The targets of most miRNAs remain unknown and their roles in biological processes such as cell differentiation, proliferation, and death (apoptosis) are not clearly understood. In this review we will discuss how certain candidate miRNAs affect inflammatory and immune mediated diseases by regulating their cellular and molecular targets. We focused the influence of gender and sex hormones on miRNA. We believe that understanding the role of miRNAs could shed light on the cause and progression of many inflammatory and autoimmune diseases and eventually lay the groundwork for therapeutic options.. miRNAs are small non-coding RNA molecules that modulate the expression of multiple protein-encoding genes at the post-transcriptional level. They have recently been recognized as powerful regulators of numerous genes and pathways in the pathogenesis of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The targets of most miRNAs remain unknown and their roles in biological processes such as cell differentiation, proliferation, and death (apoptosis) are not clearly understood. In this review we will discuss how certain candidate miRNAs affect inflammatory and immune mediated diseases by regulating their cellular and molecular targets. We focused the influence of gender and sex hormones on miRNA. We believe that understanding the role of miRNAs could shed light on the cause and progression of many inflammatory and autoimmune diseases and eventually lay the groundwork for therapeutic options.

Sode, J., S. B. Krintel, et al. (2018). "Plasma MicroRNA Profiles in Patients with Early Rheumatoid Arthritis Responding to Adalimumab plus Methotrexate vs Methotrexate Alone: A Placebo-controlled Clinical Trial." J Rheumatol 45(1): 53-61. OBJECTIVE: The aim was to identify plasma (i.e., cell-free) microRNA (miRNA) predicting antitumor necrosis and/or methotrexate (MTX) treatment response in patients enrolled in an investigator-initiated, prospective, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial (The OPERA study, NCT00660647). METHODS: We included 180 disease-modifying antirheumatic drug-naive patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) randomized to adalimumab (ADA; n = 89) or placebo (n = 91) in combination with MTX. Plasma samples before and 3 months after treatment initiation were analyzed for 91 specific miRNA by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction on microfluidic dynamic arrays. A linear mixed-effects model was used to test for associations between pretreatment miRNA and changes in miRNA expression and American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism (ACR/EULAR) Boolean (28 joints) remission at 3 and 12 months, applying false discovery rate correction for multiple testing. Using leave-one-out cross validation, we built predictive multivariate miRNA models and estimated classification performances using receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curves. RESULTS: In the ADA group, a higher pretreatment level of miR-27a-3p was significantly associated with remission at 12 months. The level decreased in remitting patients between pretreatment and 3 months, and increased in nonremitting patients. No associations were found in the placebo group receiving only MTX. Two multivariate miRNA models were able to predict response to ADA treatment after 3 and 12 months, with 63% and 82% area under the ROC curves, respectively. CONCLUSION: We identified miR-27a-3p as a potential predictive biomarker of ACR/EULAR remission in patients with early RA treated with ADA in combination with MTX. We conclude that pretreatment plasma-miRNA profiles may be of predictive value, but the results need confirmation in independent cohorts.. OBJECTIVE: The aim was to identify plasma (i.e., cell-free) microRNA (miRNA) predicting antitumor necrosis and/or methotrexate (MTX) treatment response in patients enrolled in an investigator-initiated, prospective, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial (The OPERA study, NCT00660647). METHODS: We included 180 disease-modifying antirheumatic drug-naive patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) randomized to adalimumab (ADA; n = 89) or placebo (n = 91) in combination with MTX. Plasma samples before and 3 months after treatment initiation were analyzed for 91 specific miRNA by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction on microfluidic dynamic arrays. A linear mixed-effects model was used to test for associations between pretreatment miRNA and changes in miRNA expression and American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism (ACR/EULAR) Boolean (28 joints) remission at 3 and 12 months, applying false discovery rate correction for multiple testing. Using leave-one-out cross validation, we built predictive multivariate miRNA models and estimated classification performances using receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curves. RESULTS: In the ADA group, a higher pretreatment level of miR-27a-3p was significantly associated with remission at 12 months. The level decreased in remitting patients between pretreatment and 3 months, and increased in nonremitting patients. No associations were found in the placebo group receiving only MTX. Two multivariate miRNA models were able to predict response to ADA treatment after 3 and 12 months, with 63% and 82% area under the ROC curves, respectively. CONCLUSION: We identified miR-27a-3p as a potential predictive biomarker of ACR/EULAR remission in patients with early RA treated with ADA in combination with MTX. We conclude that pretreatment plasma-miRNA profiles may be of predictive value, but the results need confirmation in independent cohorts.

Soltanzadeh-Yamchi, M., M. Shahbazi, et al. (2018). "MicroRNA signature of regulatory T cells in health and autoimmunity." Biomed Pharmacother 100: 316-323. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNA molecules with regulatory functions on the expression of genes through binding directly to target messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts, eventuating in gene expression suppression via translational hindrance and/or target mRNA cleavage. These molecules have been established to participate in numerous critical cellular settings, including differentiation, development, and function of immune cells. As an important suppressor cell of immune system, regulatory T cells (Tregs) are important in modulating the immune homeostasis as well as tolerance to self-antigens. Despite identification of numerous transcription factors, cytokines, and other mediators regulate the biology of Tregs, investigations have demonstrated that noncoding RNAs are involved in several mechanisms of the regulation of Treg cells. On the other side, dysregulation of expression of several miRNAs has been reported in Tregs, implicating to the impaired function of these regulatory cells, resulting in autoimmune and other immune-based disorders. In this review, we aim to go through the overall microRNA network and specific miRNAs that are involved in the development, differentiation, and function of Tregs. Moreover, an overview was provided with respect to the role of aberrant expression of miRNAs in Tregs of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes, and psoriasis.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNA molecules with regulatory functions on the expression of genes through binding directly to target messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts, eventuating in gene expression suppression via translational hindrance and/or target mRNA cleavage. These molecules have been established to participate in numerous critical cellular settings, including differentiation, development, and function of immune cells. As an important suppressor cell of immune system, regulatory T cells (Tregs) are important in modulating the immune homeostasis as well as tolerance to self-antigens. Despite identification of numerous transcription factors, cytokines, and other mediators regulate the biology of Tregs, investigations have demonstrated that noncoding RNAs are involved in several mechanisms of the regulation of Treg cells. On the other side, dysregulation of expression of several miRNAs has been reported in Tregs, implicating to the impaired function of these regulatory cells, resulting in autoimmune and other immune-based disorders. In this review, we aim to go through the overall microRNA network and specific miRNAs that are involved in the development, differentiation, and function of Tregs. Moreover, an overview was provided with respect to the role of aberrant expression of miRNAs in Tregs of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes, and psoriasis.

Song, G. G., S. C. Bae, et al. (2015). "The association between susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis and miR-146a, miR-499 and IRAK1 polymorphisms. A meta-analysis." Z Rheumatol 74(7): 637-645. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore whether polymorphisms in miR-146a, miR-499 and IRAK1 are associated with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis. METHODS: Manual searches performed in the MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were used to identify published articles in which the roles of microRNA (miRNA) and IRAK1 polymorphisms in inflammatory arthritis were determined. A meta-analysis was conducted to investigate associations of the miR-146a rs2910164, miR-499 rs3746444, IRAK1 rs3027898 and IRAK1 rs1059703 polymorphisms with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis. RESULTS: Nine studies containing 1224 patients and 1841 controls were included in the meta-analysis. The meta-analysis revealed no association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs2910164 C allele of miR-146a (odds ratio, OR = 0.974; 95 % confidence interval, CI = 0.810-1.091; p = 0.650). Stratification by ethnicity or disease type revealed no association between the miR-146a C allele and inflammatory arthritis in European, Middle Eastern or Asian patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). However, the meta-analysis revealed an overall association between RA and the miR-499 rs374644 C (OR = 1.123, 95 % CI = 1.019-2.586, p = 0.041); stratification by ethnicity revealed a particular association in Middle Eastern populations (OR = 1.943, 95 % CI = 1.508-2.504, p = 2.7 x 10(-8)). The meta-analysis of IRAK1 polymorphisms revealed an association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs3027898 CC genotype (OR = 2.602, 95 % CI = 1.387-4.879, p = 0.003). An analysis using the homozygote contrast showed the same pattern for the rs3027898 CC genotype (OR = 2.472, 95 % CI = 1.300-4.700, p = 0.006). No association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs1059703 polymorphism was found. CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis suggests that the miR-499 rs374644 and IRAKI rs3027898 polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis.. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore whether polymorphisms in miR-146a, miR-499 and IRAK1 are associated with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis. METHODS: Manual searches performed in the MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were used to identify published articles in which the roles of microRNA (miRNA) and IRAK1 polymorphisms in inflammatory arthritis were determined. A meta-analysis was conducted to investigate associations of the miR-146a rs2910164, miR-499 rs3746444, IRAK1 rs3027898 and IRAK1 rs1059703 polymorphisms with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis. RESULTS: Nine studies containing 1224 patients and 1841 controls were included in the meta-analysis. The meta-analysis revealed no association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs2910164 C allele of miR-146a (odds ratio, OR = 0.974; 95 % confidence interval, CI = 0.810-1.091; p = 0.650). Stratification by ethnicity or disease type revealed no association between the miR-146a C allele and inflammatory arthritis in European, Middle Eastern or Asian patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). However, the meta-analysis revealed an overall association between RA and the miR-499 rs374644 C (OR = 1.123, 95 % CI = 1.019-2.586, p = 0.041); stratification by ethnicity revealed a particular association in Middle Eastern populations (OR = 1.943, 95 % CI = 1.508-2.504, p = 2.7 x 10(-8)). The meta-analysis of IRAK1 polymorphisms revealed an association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs3027898 CC genotype (OR = 2.602, 95 % CI = 1.387-4.879, p = 0.003). An analysis using the homozygote contrast showed the same pattern for the rs3027898 CC genotype (OR = 2.472, 95 % CI = 1.300-4.700, p = 0.006). No association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs1059703 polymorphism was found. CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis suggests that the miR-499 rs374644 and IRAKI rs3027898 polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis.

Song, Y. J., G. Li, et al. (2015). "Bioinformatics-Based Identification of MicroRNA-Regulated and Rheumatoid Arthritis-Associated Genes." PLoS One 10(9): e0137551. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) act as epigenetic markers and regulate the expression of their target genes, including those characterized as regulators in autoimmune diseases. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is one of the most common autoimmune diseases. The potential roles of miRNA-regulated genes in RA pathogenesis have greatly aroused the interest of clinicians and researchers in recent years. In the current study, RA-related miRNAs records were obtained from PubMed through conditional literature retrieval. After analyzing the selected records, miRNA targeted genes were predicted. We identified 14 RA-associated miRNAs, and their sub-analysis in 5 microarray or RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) datasets was performed. The microarray and RNA-seq data of RA were also downloaded from NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and Sequence Read Archive (SRA), analyzed, and annotated. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified a series of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by comparing studies on RA and the controls. The RA-related gene expression profile was thus obtained and the expression of miRNA-regulated genes was analyzed. After functional annotation analysis, we found GO molecular function (MF) terms significantly enriched in calcium ion binding (GO: 0005509). Moreover, some novel dysregulated target genes were identified in RA through integrated analysis of miRNA/mRNA expression. The result revealed that the expression of a number of genes, including ROR2, ABI3BP, SMOC2, etc., was not only affected by dysregulated miRNAs, but also altered in RA. Our findings indicate that there is a close association between negatively correlated mRNA/miRNA pairs and RA. These findings may be applied to identify genetic markers for RA diagnosis and treatment in the future.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) act as epigenetic markers and regulate the expression of their target genes, including those characterized as regulators in autoimmune diseases. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is one of the most common autoimmune diseases. The potential roles of miRNA-regulated genes in RA pathogenesis have greatly aroused the interest of clinicians and researchers in recent years. In the current study, RA-related miRNAs records were obtained from PubMed through conditional literature retrieval. After analyzing the selected records, miRNA targeted genes were predicted. We identified 14 RA-associated miRNAs, and their sub-analysis in 5 microarray or RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) datasets was performed. The microarray and RNA-seq data of RA were also downloaded from NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and Sequence Read Archive (SRA), analyzed, and annotated. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified a series of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by comparing studies on RA and the controls. The RA-related gene expression profile was thus obtained and the expression of miRNA-regulated genes was analyzed. After functional annotation analysis, we found GO molecular function (MF) terms significantly enriched in calcium ion binding (GO: 0005509). Moreover, some novel dysregulated target genes were identified in RA through integrated analysis of miRNA/mRNA expression. The result revealed that the expression of a number of genes, including ROR2, ABI3BP, SMOC2, etc., was not only affected by dysregulated miRNAs, but also altered in RA. Our findings indicate that there is a close association between negatively correlated mRNA/miRNA pairs and RA. These findings may be applied to identify genetic markers for RA diagnosis and treatment in the future.

Spoerl, D., I. Duroux-Richard, et al. (2013). "The role of miR-155 in regulatory T cells and rheumatoid arthritis." Clin Immunol 148(1): 56-65. Recently, various micro(mi)RNAs have been found deregulated in the setting of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but their role in the pathogenesis of this disease remains a matter of debate. In the meanwhile, increasing evidence indicates a defective function of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in RA. This review discusses relevant studies addressing the function of Tregs and Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 in RA, provides recent data on the role of miRNAs for Tregs homeostasis, and focuses on the role of miR-155 in Tregs. In a final perspective section we discuss the potential impact of therapeutic miR-155 modulation in RA.. Recently, various micro(mi)RNAs have been found deregulated in the setting of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but their role in the pathogenesis of this disease remains a matter of debate. In the meanwhile, increasing evidence indicates a defective function of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in RA. This review discusses relevant studies addressing the function of Tregs and Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 in RA, provides recent data on the role of miRNAs for Tregs homeostasis, and focuses on the role of miR-155 in Tregs. In a final perspective section we discuss the potential impact of therapeutic miR-155 modulation in RA.

Stanczyk, J., C. Ospelt, et al. (2011). "Altered expression of microRNA-203 in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts and its role in fibroblast activation." Arthritis Rheum 63(2): 373-381. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miRNA) are recognized as important regulators of a variety of fundamental biologic processes. Previously, we described increased expression of miR-155 and miR-146a in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and showed a repressive effect of miR-155 on matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) expression in RA synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). The present study was undertaken to examine alterations in expression of miR-203 in RASFs and analyze its role in fibroblast activation. METHODS: Differentially expressed miRNA in RASFs versus osteoarthritis synovial fibroblasts (OASFs) were identified by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based screening of 260 individual miRNA. Transfection of miR-203 precursor was used to analyze the function of miR-203 in RASFs. Levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and MMPs were measured by real-time PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RASFs were stimulated with IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and 5-azacytidine (5-azaC). Activity of IkappaB kinase 2 was inhibited with SC-514. RESULTS: Expression of miR-203 was higher in RASFs than in OASFs or fibroblasts from healthy donors. Levels of miR-203 did not change upon stimulation with IL-1beta, TNFalpha, or LPS; however, DNA demethylation with 5-azaC increased the expression of miR-203. Enforced expression of miR-203 led to significantly increased levels of MMP-1 and IL-6. Induction of IL-6 by miR-203 overexpression was inhibited by blocking of the NF-kappaB pathway. Basal expression levels of IL-6 correlated with basal expression levels of miR-203. CONCLUSION: The current results demonstrate methylation-dependent regulation of miR-203 expression in RASFs. Importantly, they also show that elevated levels of miR-203 lead to increased secretion of MMP-1 and IL-6 via the NF-kappaB pathway and thereby contribute to the activated phenotype of synovial fibroblasts in RA.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNA (miRNA) are recognized as important regulators of a variety of fundamental biologic processes. Previously, we described increased expression of miR-155 and miR-146a in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and showed a repressive effect of miR-155 on matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) expression in RA synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). The present study was undertaken to examine alterations in expression of miR-203 in RASFs and analyze its role in fibroblast activation. METHODS: Differentially expressed miRNA in RASFs versus osteoarthritis synovial fibroblasts (OASFs) were identified by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based screening of 260 individual miRNA. Transfection of miR-203 precursor was used to analyze the function of miR-203 in RASFs. Levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and MMPs were measured by real-time PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RASFs were stimulated with IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and 5-azacytidine (5-azaC). Activity of IkappaB kinase 2 was inhibited with SC-514. RESULTS: Expression of miR-203 was higher in RASFs than in OASFs or fibroblasts from healthy donors. Levels of miR-203 did not change upon stimulation with IL-1beta, TNFalpha, or LPS; however, DNA demethylation with 5-azaC increased the expression of miR-203. Enforced expression of miR-203 led to significantly increased levels of MMP-1 and IL-6. Induction of IL-6 by miR-203 overexpression was inhibited by blocking of the NF-kappaB pathway. Basal expression levels of IL-6 correlated with basal expression levels of miR-203. CONCLUSION: The current results demonstrate methylation-dependent regulation of miR-203 expression in RASFs. Importantly, they also show that elevated levels of miR-203 lead to increased secretion of MMP-1 and IL-6 via the NF-kappaB pathway and thereby contribute to the activated phenotype of synovial fibroblasts in RA.

Stanczyk, J., D. M. Pedrioli, et al. (2008). "Altered expression of MicroRNA in synovial fibroblasts and synovial tissue in rheumatoid arthritis." Arthritis Rheum 58(4): 1001-1009. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNA) have recently emerged as a new class of modulators of gene expression. In this study we investigated the expression, regulation, and function of miR-155 and miR-146a in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) and RA synovial tissue. METHODS: Locked nucleic acid microarray was used to screen for differentially expressed miRNA in RASFs treated with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). TaqMan-based real-time polymerase chain reaction was applied to measure the levels of miR-155 and miR-146a. Enforced overexpression of miR-155 was used to investigate the function of miR-155 in RASFs. RESULTS: Microarray analysis of miRNA expressed in RASFs treated with TNFalpha revealed a prominent up-regulation of miR-155. Constitutive expression of both miR-155 and miR-146a was higher in RASFs than in those from patients with osteoarthritis (OA), and expression of miR-155 could be further induced by TNFalpha, interleukin-1beta, lipopolysaccharide, poly(I-C), and bacterial lipoprotein. The expression of miR-155 in RA synovial tissue was higher than in OA synovial tissue. Enforced expression of miR-155 in RASFs was found to repress the levels of matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP-3) and reduce the induction of MMPs 3 and 1 by Toll-like receptor ligands and cytokines. Moreover, compared with monocytes from RA peripheral blood, RA synovial fluid monocytes displayed higher levels of miR-155. CONCLUSION: This study provides the first description of increased expression of miRNA miR-155 and miR-146a in RA. Based on these findings, we postulate that the inflammatory milieu may alter miRNA expression profiles in resident cells of the rheumatoid joints. Considering the repressive effect of miR-155 on the expression of MMPs 3 and 1 in RASFs, we hypothesize that miR-155 may be involved in modulation of the destructive properties of RASFs.. OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNA) have recently emerged as a new class of modulators of gene expression. In this study we investigated the expression, regulation, and function of miR-155 and miR-146a in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) and RA synovial tissue. METHODS: Locked nucleic acid microarray was used to screen for differentially expressed miRNA in RASFs treated with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). TaqMan-based real-time polymerase chain reaction was applied to measure the levels of miR-155 and miR-146a. Enforced overexpression of miR-155 was used to investigate the function of miR-155 in RASFs. RESULTS: Microarray analysis of miRNA expressed in RASFs treated with TNFalpha revealed a prominent up-regulation of miR-155. Constitutive expression of both miR-155 and miR-146a was higher in RASFs than in those from patients with osteoarthritis (OA), and expression of miR-155 could be further induced by TNFalpha, interleukin-1beta, lipopolysaccharide, poly(I-C), and bacterial lipoprotein. The expression of miR-155 in RA synovial tissue was higher than in OA synovial tissue. Enforced expression of miR-155 in RASFs was found to repress the levels of matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP-3) and reduce the induction of MMPs 3 and 1 by Toll-like receptor ligands and cytokines. Moreover, compared with monocytes from RA peripheral blood, RA synovial fluid monocytes displayed higher levels of miR-155. CONCLUSION: This study provides the first description of increased expression of miRNA miR-155 and miR-146a in RA. Based on these findings, we postulate that the inflammatory milieu may alter miRNA expression profiles in resident cells of the rheumatoid joints. Considering the repressive effect of miR-155 on the expression of MMPs 3 and 1 in RASFs, we hypothesize that miR-155 may be involved in modulation of the destructive properties of RASFs.

States, J. C., A. V. Singh, et al. (2012). "Prenatal arsenic exposure alters gene expression in the adult liver to a proinflammatory state contributing to accelerated atherosclerosis." PLoS One 7(6): e38713. The mechanisms by which environmental toxicants alter developmental processes predisposing individuals to adult onset chronic disease are not well-understood. Transplacental arsenic exposure promotes atherogenesis in apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE(-/-)) mice. Because the liver plays a central role in atherosclerosis, diabetes and metabolic syndrome, we hypothesized that accelerated atherosclerosis may be linked to altered hepatic development. This hypothesis was tested in ApoE(-/-) mice exposed to 49 ppm arsenic in utero from gestational day (GD) 8 to term. GD18 hepatic arsenic was 1.2 microg/g in dams and 350 ng/g in fetuses. The hepatic transcriptome was evaluated by microarray analysis to assess mRNA and microRNA abundance in control and exposed pups at postnatal day (PND) 1 and PND70. Arsenic exposure altered postnatal developmental trajectory of mRNA and microRNA profiles. We identified an arsenic exposure related 51-gene signature at PND1 and PND70 with several hubs of interaction (Hspa8, IgM and Hnf4a). Gene ontology (GO) annotation analyses indicated that pathways for gluconeogenesis and glycolysis were suppressed in exposed pups at PND1, and pathways for protein export, ribosome, antigen processing and presentation, and complement and coagulation cascades were induced by PND70. Promoter analysis of differentially-expressed transcripts identified enriched transcription factor binding sites and clustering to common regulatory sites. SREBP1 binding sites were identified in about 16% of PND70 differentially-expressed genes. Western blot analysis confirmed changes in the liver at PND70 that included increases of heat shock protein 70 (Hspa8) and active SREBP1. Plasma AST and ALT levels were increased at PND70. These results suggest that transplacental arsenic exposure alters developmental programming in fetal liver, leading to an enduring stress and proinflammatory response postnatally that may contribute to early onset of atherosclerosis. Genes containing SREBP1 binding sites also suggest pathways for diabetes mellitus and rheumatoid arthritis, both diseases that contribute to increased cardiovascular disease in humans.. The mechanisms by which environmental toxicants alter developmental processes predisposing individuals to adult onset chronic disease are not well-understood. Transplacental arsenic exposure promotes atherogenesis in apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE(-/-)) mice. Because the liver plays a central role in atherosclerosis, diabetes and metabolic syndrome, we hypothesized that accelerated atherosclerosis may be linked to altered hepatic development. This hypothesis was tested in ApoE(-/-) mice exposed to 49 ppm arsenic in utero from gestational day (GD) 8 to term. GD18 hepatic arsenic was 1.2 microg/g in dams and 350 ng/g in fetuses. The hepatic transcriptome was evaluated by microarray analysis to assess mRNA and microRNA abundance in control and exposed pups at postnatal day (PND) 1 and PND70. Arsenic exposure altered postnatal developmental trajectory of mRNA and microRNA profiles. We identified an arsenic exposure related 51-gene signature at PND1 and PND70 with several hubs of interaction (Hspa8, IgM and Hnf4a). Gene ontology (GO) annotation analyses indicated that pathways for gluconeogenesis and glycolysis were suppressed in exposed pups at PND1, and pathways for protein export, ribosome, antigen processing and presentation, and complement and coagulation cascades were induced by PND70. Promoter analysis of differentially-expressed transcripts identified enriched transcription factor binding sites and clustering to common regulatory sites. SREBP1 binding sites were identified in about 16% of PND70 differentially-expressed genes. Western blot analysis confirmed changes in the liver at PND70 that included increases of heat shock protein 70 (Hspa8) and active SREBP1. Plasma AST and ALT levels were increased at PND70. These results suggest that transplacental arsenic exposure alters developmental programming in fetal liver, leading to an enduring stress and proinflammatory response postnatally that may contribute to early onset of atherosclerosis. Genes containing SREBP1 binding sites also suggest pathways for diabetes mellitus and rheumatoid arthritis, both diseases that contribute to increased cardiovascular disease in humans.

Su, C. M., C. J. Hsu, et al. (2015). "Resistin Promotes Angiogenesis in Endothelial Progenitor Cells Through Inhibition of MicroRNA206: Potential Implications for Rheumatoid Arthritis." Stem Cells 33(7): 2243-2255. Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) promote angiogenesis and are therefore key contributors to a wide variety of angiogenesis-related autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the signaling mechanisms through which these progenitor cells influence RA pathogenesis remain unknown. The aim of this study was to examine whether resistin plays a role in the pathogenesis of and angiogenesis associated with RA by circulating EPCs. We found that levels of resistin in synovial fluid and tissue from patients with RA and from mice with collagen-induced arthritis were overexpressed and promoted the homing of EPCs into the synovium, thereby inducing angiogenesis. EPCs isolated from healthy donors were used to investigate the signal transduction pathway underlying EPC migration and tube formation after treatment with resistin. We found that resistin directly induced a significant increase in expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in EPCs. We also found that the expression of microRNA-206 (miR-206) was negatively correlated with the expression of resistin during EPC-mediated angiogenesis. Notably, the increased expression of VEGF was associated with decreased binding of miR-206 to the VEGF-A 3' untranslated region through protein kinase C delta-dependent AMP-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. Moreover, blockade of resistin reduced EPC homing into synovial fluid and angiogenesis in vivo. Taken together, our study is the first to demonstrate that resistin promotes EPCs homing into the synovium during RA angiogenesis via a signal transduction pathway that involves VEGF expression in primary EPCs. These findings provide support for resistin as a therapeutic target for the patients with RA. Stem Cells 2015;33:2243-2255.. Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) promote angiogenesis and are therefore key contributors to a wide variety of angiogenesis-related autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the signaling mechanisms through which these progenitor cells influence RA pathogenesis remain unknown. The aim of this study was to examine whether resistin plays a role in the pathogenesis of and angiogenesis associated with RA by circulating EPCs. We found that levels of resistin in synovial fluid and tissue from patients with RA and from mice with collagen-induced arthritis were overexpressed and promoted the homing of EPCs into the synovium, thereby inducing angiogenesis. EPCs isolated from healthy donors were used to investigate the signal transduction pathway underlying EPC migration and tube formation after treatment with resistin. We found that resistin directly induced a significant increase in expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in EPCs. We also found that the expression of microRNA-206 (miR-206) was negatively correlated with the expression of resistin during EPC-mediated angiogenesis. Notably, the increased expression of VEGF was associated with decreased binding of miR-206 to the VEGF-A 3' untranslated region through protein kinase C delta-dependent AMP-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. Moreover, blockade of resistin reduced EPC homing into synovial fluid and angiogenesis in vivo. Taken together, our study is the first to demonstrate that resistin promotes EPCs homing into the synovium during RA angiogenesis via a signal transduction pathway that involves VEGF expression in primary EPCs. These findings provide support for resistin as a therapeutic target for the patients with RA. Stem Cells 2015;33:2243-2255.

Su, L. C., A. F. Huang, et al. (2017). "Role of microRNA-155 in rheumatoid arthritis." Int J Rheum Dis 20(11): 1631-1637. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a recently discovered class of post-transcriptional regulators that induce target messenger RNA degradation or translation inhibition. miRNA-155 (miR-155) is an important regulator of immune cells both in humans and mice, by which these cells play critical roles in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recent findings showed that expression of miR-155 was elevated in RA patients and arthritis models. Moreover, miR-155 overexpression or knockdown performed significantly in the development of arthritis. This review summarizes the recent findings with respect to miR-155 in immune responses and the underlying mechanisms responsible for miR-155-related autoimmune arthritis. Hopefully the information obtained will benefit the development of novel therapeutic strategies.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a recently discovered class of post-transcriptional regulators that induce target messenger RNA degradation or translation inhibition. miRNA-155 (miR-155) is an important regulator of immune cells both in humans and mice, by which these cells play critical roles in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recent findings showed that expression of miR-155 was elevated in RA patients and arthritis models. Moreover, miR-155 overexpression or knockdown performed significantly in the development of arthritis. This review summarizes the recent findings with respect to miR-155 in immune responses and the underlying mechanisms responsible for miR-155-related autoimmune arthritis. Hopefully the information obtained will benefit the development of novel therapeutic strategies.

Sujitha, S. and M. Rasool (2017). "MicroRNAs and bioactive compounds on TLR/MAPK signaling in rheumatoid arthritis." Clin Chim Acta 473: 106-115. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune mediated joint disease with severe complications affecting 1% of the population worldwide. Although the exact mechanism underlying the aggravation of RA remains unknown, its occurrence can lead to joint degradation and functional disability. Recent evidences have shown that the aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) play a prominent role in the furtherance of RA. Over the last decade, various intensive studies have validated different microRNAs to be good candidates for diagnostic purposes and for monitoring the disease progression in various inflammatory diseases. A deeper understanding of the molecular mechanism through which miRNAs amplify the production of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, and IL-17), pro-inflammatory mediators, growth factors and MMPs will act as potential therapeutic targets. More importantly, several studies have briefly reported the crucial role of TLR dependent MAPK signaling pathway, which mediates the pathological features of RA. In this review, we summarize the recent findings and provide a detailed report of the molecular mechanism of microRNA along with the role of TLR/MAPK signaling pathway in RA. However, the major aim of this review is to correlate the aberrantly expressed microRNAs in TLR/MAPK pathway with various well reported bioactive compounds that can modulate these signaling pathways in rheumatoid arthritis. Targeting miRNA expression using specific bioactive compounds might be a potent and an effective target in RA treatment by suppressing the TLR/MAPK pathway.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune mediated joint disease with severe complications affecting 1% of the population worldwide. Although the exact mechanism underlying the aggravation of RA remains unknown, its occurrence can lead to joint degradation and functional disability. Recent evidences have shown that the aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) play a prominent role in the furtherance of RA. Over the last decade, various intensive studies have validated different microRNAs to be good candidates for diagnostic purposes and for monitoring the disease progression in various inflammatory diseases. A deeper understanding of the molecular mechanism through which miRNAs amplify the production of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, and IL-17), pro-inflammatory mediators, growth factors and MMPs will act as potential therapeutic targets. More importantly, several studies have briefly reported the crucial role of TLR dependent MAPK signaling pathway, which mediates the pathological features of RA. In this review, we summarize the recent findings and provide a detailed report of the molecular mechanism of microRNA along with the role of TLR/MAPK signaling pathway in RA. However, the major aim of this review is to correlate the aberrantly expressed microRNAs in TLR/MAPK pathway with various well reported bioactive compounds that can modulate these signaling pathways in rheumatoid arthritis. Targeting miRNA expression using specific bioactive compounds might be a potent and an effective target in RA treatment by suppressing the TLR/MAPK pathway.

Sun, J., P. Yan, et al. (2015). "MicroRNA-26b inhibits cell proliferation and cytokine secretion in human RASF cells via the Wnt/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin pathway." Diagn Pathol 10: 72. BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic auto- immune disease characterized by joint synovitis. Recent evidence suggests that rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) promote joint destruction. In this study, we investigated the role of microRNA-26b (miR-26b) in cell proliferation and inflammatory cytokine secretion using patient-derived Rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocyte (RAFLS) to understand pathways influencing rheumatoid arthritis. METHODS: RAFLS were cultured in vitro and transfected with miR-26b mimics (experimental group) and negative sequence (control group). The protein levels of Wnt4, Wnt5a, GSK-3beta, CyclinD1, Ser9-GSK-3beta and beta-catenin were detected by western blot analysis. Tumor Necrosis Factor-a (TNF-a), IL- 1beta, and IL-6 levels were quantified by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). RAFLS proliferation and apoptosis were measured by 3-[4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and flow cytometry, respectively. RESULTS: GSK-3beta and CyclinD1 expression levels were lower in miR-26b mimic group compared to Mock group and negative control (NC) group. Conversely, GSK-3beta and CyclinD1 expression levels were markedly higher in the miR-26b inhibitor group compared to Mock and NC group (P < 0.05). Transfection of miR-26b mimics significantly increased the, levels of Ser9-GSK-3beta and beta-catenin in comparison to Mock and NC groups, while transfection of miR-26b inhibitors showed the opposite effect. In miR-26b mimic group, TNF-alpha, IL- 1beta and IL-6 levels were lower than the Mock and NC groups, while in miR-26b inhibitor group, these cytokine levels were higher than the Mock and NC groups (P < 0.05). Transfection of miR-26b mimics significantly reduced the cell proliferation of RAFLS, compared to the Mock and NC groups, and miR-26b inhibitors increased the proliferative capacity of RAFLS compared to Mock and NC groups (P < 0.05). The miR-26b mimic group exhibited higher RAFLS apoptosis rate compared to Mock and NC group and miR-26b inhibitor group showed significantly lower RAFLS apoptosis rate compared to Mock and NC groups (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: MiR-26b regulates beta-catenin and CyclinD1 levels by inhibiting GSK-3beta expression, which in-turn alters the Wnt/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin pathway to lower RAFLS proliferation and elevate cell apoptosis and the secretion of TNF-alpha,IL-1beta and IL-6 cytokines. Therefore, our results show that miR-26B plays a central role in inhibiting the inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis. VIRTUAL SLIDES: The virtual slide(s) for this article can be found here: http://www.diagnosticpathology.diagnomx.eu/vs/9063056861547150.. BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic auto- immune disease characterized by joint synovitis. Recent evidence suggests that rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) promote joint destruction. In this study, we investigated the role of microRNA-26b (miR-26b) in cell proliferation and inflammatory cytokine secretion using patient-derived Rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocyte (RAFLS) to understand pathways influencing rheumatoid arthritis. METHODS: RAFLS were cultured in vitro and transfected with miR-26b mimics (experimental group) and negative sequence (control group). The protein levels of Wnt4, Wnt5a, GSK-3beta, CyclinD1, Ser9-GSK-3beta and beta-catenin were detected by western blot analysis. Tumor Necrosis Factor-a (TNF-a), IL- 1beta, and IL-6 levels were quantified by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). RAFLS proliferation and apoptosis were measured by 3-[4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and flow cytometry, respectively. RESULTS: GSK-3beta and CyclinD1 expression levels were lower in miR-26b mimic group compared to Mock group and negative control (NC) group. Conversely, GSK-3beta and CyclinD1 expression levels were markedly higher in the miR-26b inhibitor group compared to Mock and NC group (P < 0.05). Transfection of miR-26b mimics significantly increased the, levels of Ser9-GSK-3beta and beta-catenin in comparison to Mock and NC groups, while transfection of miR-26b inhibitors showed the opposite effect. In miR-26b mimic group, TNF-alpha, IL- 1beta and IL-6 levels were lower than the Mock and NC groups, while in miR-26b inhibitor group, these cytokine levels were higher than the Mock and NC groups (P < 0.05). Transfection of miR-26b mimics significantly reduced the cell proliferation of RAFLS, compared to the Mock and NC groups, and miR-26b inhibitors increased the proliferative capacity of RAFLS compared to Mock and NC groups (P < 0.05). The miR-26b mimic group exhibited higher RAFLS apoptosis rate compared to Mock and NC group and miR-26b inhibitor group showed significantly lower RAFLS apoptosis rate compared to Mock and NC groups (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: MiR-26b regulates beta-catenin and CyclinD1 levels by inhibiting GSK-3beta expression, which in-turn alters the Wnt/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin pathway to lower RAFLS proliferation and elevate cell apoptosis and the secretion of TNF-alpha,IL-1beta and IL-6 cytokines. Therefore, our results show that miR-26B plays a central role in inhibiting the inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis. VIRTUAL SLIDES: The virtual slide(s) for this article can be found here: http://www.diagnosticpathology.diagnomx.eu/vs/9063056861547150.

Sun, Y., X. Sun, et al. (2018). "MiR-338-5p suppresses rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblast proliferation and invasion by targeting ADAMTS-9." Clin Exp Rheumatol 36(2): 195-202. OBJECTIVES: We proposed to find out the role of miR-338-5p played in cell proliferation and invasion of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) by regulating ADAMTS-9. METHODS: QRT-PCR was performed to quantify the miR-338-5p and ADAMTS-9 mRNA expression in RA sample tissues and normal synovial tissues. Western blot was performed to evaluate the ADAMTS-9 protein levels in transfected RASFs. Luciferase reporter assays were used to demonstrate whether miR338-5p directly targets ADAMTS-9. MTT, Transwell and wound healing assays were respectively used to evaluate the growth and mobility of RASFs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect cell cycle distributions and apoptosis rates in transfected RASFs. RESULTS: MiR-338-5p was significantly downregulated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) tissues while ADAMTS-9 was obviously overexpressed (p<0.001). Luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that miR-338-5p directly targeted ADAMTS-9. Moreover, overexpression of miR-338-5p suppressed RASFs biological functions and induced G0/G1 arrest and apoptosis of RASFs (p<0.001), while all the effects could be efficiently attenuated by the upregulation of ADAMTS-9. CONCLUSIONS: By inhibiting ADAMTS-9, miR-338-5p suppressed the proliferation and metastasis of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts. Thus, replenishing miR-338-5p may be a potential therapy for the clinic management of RA.. OBJECTIVES: We proposed to find out the role of miR-338-5p played in cell proliferation and invasion of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs) by regulating ADAMTS-9. METHODS: QRT-PCR was performed to quantify the miR-338-5p and ADAMTS-9 mRNA expression in RA sample tissues and normal synovial tissues. Western blot was performed to evaluate the ADAMTS-9 protein levels in transfected RASFs. Luciferase reporter assays were used to demonstrate whether miR338-5p directly targets ADAMTS-9. MTT, Transwell and wound healing assays were respectively used to evaluate the growth and mobility of RASFs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect cell cycle distributions and apoptosis rates in transfected RASFs. RESULTS: MiR-338-5p was significantly downregulated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) tissues while ADAMTS-9 was obviously overexpressed (p<0.001). Luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that miR-338-5p directly targeted ADAMTS-9. Moreover, overexpression of miR-338-5p suppressed RASFs biological functions and induced G0/G1 arrest and apoptosis of RASFs (p<0.001), while all the effects could be efficiently attenuated by the upregulation of ADAMTS-9. CONCLUSIONS: By inhibiting ADAMTS-9, miR-338-5p suppressed the proliferation and metastasis of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts. Thus, replenishing miR-338-5p may be a potential therapy for the clinic management of RA.

Tan, L., H. Wu, et al. (2016). "Recent advances of exosomes in immune modulation and autoimmune diseases." Autoimmunity 49(6): 357-365. Exosomes are small membrane-bound vesicles (30-100 nm) that are secreted by different types of cells and they have been well documented to resemble saucers or flattened spheres under the electron microscope. Recently, evidence indicates that exosomes play important roles in the immune modulation and are associated with the immune pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Sjogren's syndrome (SS) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In this review, we will summarize current research advances of exosomes in immunoregulation, pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapeutics of autoimmune diseases.. Exosomes are small membrane-bound vesicles (30-100 nm) that are secreted by different types of cells and they have been well documented to resemble saucers or flattened spheres under the electron microscope. Recently, evidence indicates that exosomes play important roles in the immune modulation and are associated with the immune pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Sjogren's syndrome (SS) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In this review, we will summarize current research advances of exosomes in immunoregulation, pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapeutics of autoimmune diseases.

Tanaka-Watanabe, Y. and H. Asahara (2012). "[Joint and microRNA]." Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi 35(6): 447-454. MicroRNAs (miRNA) play a key role for morphogenesis or various diseases like cancer. Small RNA, has no protein-encoding sequence, has been indentified to interfere with stability or translational ratio of mRNA. MiRNA is one of the small RNA family and has been analyzed about the synthesis, function and target genes. These researches lead exploitation of new nucleic drugs. Many researches have been reported for relationship between miRNA and rheumatoid arthritis (RA)/osteoarthritis (OA). MiR-146a and -155 were mainly reported for RA, miR-140 was mainly reported for OA including cartilage development. This article was summarized various analysis for miRNA with RA and OA.. MicroRNAs (miRNA) play a key role for morphogenesis or various diseases like cancer. Small RNA, has no protein-encoding sequence, has been indentified to interfere with stability or translational ratio of mRNA. MiRNA is one of the small RNA family and has been analyzed about the synthesis, function and target genes. These researches lead exploitation of new nucleic drugs. Many researches have been reported for relationship between miRNA and rheumatoid arthritis (RA)/osteoarthritis (OA). MiR-146a and -155 were mainly reported for RA, miR-140 was mainly reported for OA including cartilage development. This article was summarized various analysis for miRNA with RA and OA.

Tang, X., K. Yin, et al. (2016). "Correlation Between the Expression of MicroRNA-301a-3p and the Proportion of Th17 Cells in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis." Inflammation 39(2): 759-767. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by chronic synovial inflammation and subsequent joint destruction. Previous studies have confirmed that Th17 cells play a critical role in the pathogenesis of RA. MicroRNA (miR)-301a-3p is a regulatory factor for Th17 cells differentiation that contributes to the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. The purposes of this study were to identify the alteration of Th17 cells and analyze the correlation between the expression of the miR-301a-3p and the proportion of Th17 cells in RA patients. The results showed that the frequency of Th17 cells and the expression of transcription factors (RORgammat and STAT3) significantly increased in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients, and the associated proinflammatory cytokines were also upregulated. We also observed that the expression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), the main cellular inhibitor of STAT3, was attenuated in RA patients and negatively correlated with the percentage of Th17 cells in RA. Interestingly, miR-301a-3p, an inhibitor of PIAS3 expression, was overexpressed in the PBMCs from RA patients and positively correlated with the frequency of Th17 cells in patients with RA. Taken together, these data indicated that miR-301a-3p and Th17 cells were augmented in peripheral blood, which may play an important role in the process of RA.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by chronic synovial inflammation and subsequent joint destruction. Previous studies have confirmed that Th17 cells play a critical role in the pathogenesis of RA. MicroRNA (miR)-301a-3p is a regulatory factor for Th17 cells differentiation that contributes to the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. The purposes of this study were to identify the alteration of Th17 cells and analyze the correlation between the expression of the miR-301a-3p and the proportion of Th17 cells in RA patients. The results showed that the frequency of Th17 cells and the expression of transcription factors (RORgammat and STAT3) significantly increased in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients, and the associated proinflammatory cytokines were also upregulated. We also observed that the expression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), the main cellular inhibitor of STAT3, was attenuated in RA patients and negatively correlated with the percentage of Th17 cells in RA. Interestingly, miR-301a-3p, an inhibitor of PIAS3 expression, was overexpressed in the PBMCs from RA patients and positively correlated with the frequency of Th17 cells in patients with RA. Taken together, these data indicated that miR-301a-3p and Th17 cells were augmented in peripheral blood, which may play an important role in the process of RA.

Tao, Y., Z. Wang, et al. (2017). "Downregulation of miR-106b attenuates inflammatory responses and joint damage in collagen-induced arthritis." Rheumatology (Oxford) 56(10): 1804-1813. Objective: miRNAs are small, signal-strand, non-coding RNAs that function in post-transcriptional regulation. We analysed the in vivo effect of miR-106b (miR-106b-5p) on inflammatory bone loss in CIA mice. Methods: CIA mice are developed by injecting DAB/1 mice with bovine type II collagen containing Freund's adjuvant and then the in vivo effect of miR-106b is examined. On day 22, mice were given lentiviral negative control, lentiviral-mediated miR-106b mimics or lentiviral-mediated miR-106b inhibitor via orbital injection on a weekly basis. Morphological changes in the ankle joints were assessed via micro-CT and histopathology and cytokine expression levels were examined via immunohistochemical staining, ELISA or flow cytometric analysis. miR-106b and osteoclastic-related gene expression was evaluated via quantitative real-time PCR. Results: CIA mice were found to have increased miR-106b expression and CIA-associated bone loss and inflammatory infiltration. miR-106b inhibitor treatment markedly decreased arthritis incidence and attenuated bone destruction and histological severity compared with the control group. Moreover, miR-106b inhibitor treatment suppressed RANK ligand (RANKL) expression, increased osteoprotegerin (OPG) expression and reduced the RANKL:OPG ratio in CIA mice. miR-106b inhibition also significantly decreased inflammatory mediator production in joint sections and reduced serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels when compared with the control group. Additionally, miR-106b inhibition decreased tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive cell numbers and suppressed murine bone marrow macrophage differentiation. Conclusion: These findings indicate that miR-106b inhibition can ameliorate CIA-associated inflammation and bone destruction and thus may serve as a potential therapeutic for human RA treatment.. Objective: miRNAs are small, signal-strand, non-coding RNAs that function in post-transcriptional regulation. We analysed the in vivo effect of miR-106b (miR-106b-5p) on inflammatory bone loss in CIA mice. Methods: CIA mice are developed by injecting DAB/1 mice with bovine type II collagen containing Freund's adjuvant and then the in vivo effect of miR-106b is examined. On day 22, mice were given lentiviral negative control, lentiviral-mediated miR-106b mimics or lentiviral-mediated miR-106b inhibitor via orbital injection on a weekly basis. Morphological changes in the ankle joints were assessed via micro-CT and histopathology and cytokine expression levels were examined via immunohistochemical staining, ELISA or flow cytometric analysis. miR-106b and osteoclastic-related gene expression was evaluated via quantitative real-time PCR. Results: CIA mice were found to have increased miR-106b expression and CIA-associated bone loss and inflammatory infiltration. miR-106b inhibitor treatment markedly decreased arthritis incidence and attenuated bone destruction and histological severity compared with the control group. Moreover, miR-106b inhibitor treatment suppressed RANK ligand (RANKL) expression, increased osteoprotegerin (OPG) expression and reduced the RANKL:OPG ratio in CIA mice. miR-106b inhibition also significantly decreased inflammatory mediator production in joint sections and reduced serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels when compared with the control group. Additionally, miR-106b inhibition decreased tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive cell numbers and suppressed murine bone marrow macrophage differentiation. Conclusion: These findings indicate that miR-106b inhibition can ameliorate CIA-associated inflammation and bone destruction and thus may serve as a potential therapeutic for human RA treatment.

Tavasolian, F., E. Abdollahi, et al. (2018). "Altered Expression of MicroRNAs in Rheumatoid Arthritis." J Cell Biochem 119(1): 478-487. Rheumatoid arthritis is one of the most common types of inflammatory joint diseases. Women, smokers, and people with positive family history are more susceptible to this disease. Diagnostic criteria include at least one swollen joint that has not been caused by other diseases. MicroRNAs are non-coding RNAs that are evolutionarily conserved and have a length of 18-25 nucleotides. MicroRNAs control gene expression at the post-transcriptional level via promoting mRNA degradation or translational repression. Recognition of alterations in microRNA status and their respective targets, may offer an opportunity to better identify the pathways that are involved in the etiopathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. It has been suggested that microRNAs may serve as potential biomarkers for both diagnosis and prognosis of autoimmune diseases. Here, we review the available evidence on the deregulations of microRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis. More precisely, this review focuses on the microRNA involved in T cell regulation and gives perspectives on the use of this microRNA as biomarkers of diagnosis, prognosis, or intervention efficacy. J. Cell. Biochem. 119: 478-487, 2018. (c) 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.. Rheumatoid arthritis is one of the most common types of inflammatory joint diseases. Women, smokers, and people with positive family history are more susceptible to this disease. Diagnostic criteria include at least one swollen joint that has not been caused by other diseases. MicroRNAs are non-coding RNAs that are evolutionarily conserved and have a length of 18-25 nucleotides. MicroRNAs control gene expression at the post-transcriptional level via promoting mRNA degradation or translational repression. Recognition of alterations in microRNA status and their respective targets, may offer an opportunity to better identify the pathways that are involved in the etiopathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. It has been suggested that microRNAs may serve as potential biomarkers for both diagnosis and prognosis of autoimmune diseases. Here, we review the available evidence on the deregulations of microRNA expression in rheumatoid arthritis. More precisely, this review focuses on the microRNA involved in T cell regulation and gives perspectives on the use of this microRNA as biomarkers of diagnosis, prognosis, or intervention efficacy. J. Cell. Biochem. 119: 478-487, 2018. (c) 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Tiwari, A., B. Mukherjee, et al. (2018). "MicroRNA Key to Angiogenesis Regulation: MiRNA Biology and Therapy." Curr Cancer Drug Targets 18(3): 266-277. Angiogenesis is involved in maintaining normal physiological processes like embryonic development, wound healing, inflammation and reproduction. Pathogenesis of various diseases like diabetic retinopathy, rheumatoid arthritis and cancer are associated with imbalanced angiogenesis. Angiogenic stimulators and inhibitors act together for keeping angiogenic switch in balance. Recently, miRNAs have been found to regulate various stages of angiogenesis. miRNAs are 21-23 nucleotides long, single stranded, noncoding RNA molecules generated endogenously. miRNA's ability to target multiple genes within a signaling pathway makes them promising target for the development of second generation anti-angiogenesis drugs. This review was conceived with the notion of availability of specific and comprehensive knowledge about AngiomiRs at one place. This will facilitate the research in basic understanding and in the development of new drugs. In this review, we have summarized the biology and therapeutic potential of the miRNAs, which are involved in controlling angiogenesis process. In miRNA biology, we have provided the updated summary of miRNAs in the regulation of endothelial cells, showed role of miRNAs in the signaling pathways of angiogenesis and, discussed the gaps in complete knowledge of mechanism. We have also provided exclusive insights regarding therapeutic potential of these miRNAs, in angiogenesis related disorders. Additionally, we have discussed the challenges in miRNA based drug delivery and updated the current efforts in the development of miRNA delivery methods. Though much research is needed to discover the complete miRNA network regulating angiogenesis but once it is done, targeting miRNA may be considered as a potential candidate for therapeutic invention against angiogenesis related disorders.. Angiogenesis is involved in maintaining normal physiological processes like embryonic development, wound healing, inflammation and reproduction. Pathogenesis of various diseases like diabetic retinopathy, rheumatoid arthritis and cancer are associated with imbalanced angiogenesis. Angiogenic stimulators and inhibitors act together for keeping angiogenic switch in balance. Recently, miRNAs have been found to regulate various stages of angiogenesis. miRNAs are 21-23 nucleotides long, single stranded, noncoding RNA molecules generated endogenously. miRNA's ability to target multiple genes within a signaling pathway makes them promising target for the development of second generation anti-angiogenesis drugs. This review was conceived with the notion of availability of specific and comprehensive knowledge about AngiomiRs at one place. This will facilitate the research in basic understanding and in the development of new drugs. In this review, we have summarized the biology and therapeutic potential of the miRNAs, which are involved in controlling angiogenesis process. In miRNA biology, we have provided the updated summary of miRNAs in the regulation of endothelial cells, showed role of miRNAs in the signaling pathways of angiogenesis and, discussed the gaps in complete knowledge of mechanism. We have also provided exclusive insights regarding therapeutic potential of these miRNAs, in angiogenesis related disorders. Additionally, we have discussed the challenges in miRNA based drug delivery and updated the current efforts in the development of miRNA delivery methods. Though much research is needed to discover the complete miRNA network regulating angiogenesis but once it is done, targeting miRNA may be considered as a potential candidate for therapeutic invention against angiogenesis related disorders.

Tolusso, B., S. Alivernini, et al. (2016). "Biomolecular features of inflammation in obese rheumatoid arthritis patients: management considerations." Expert Rev Clin Immunol 12(7): 751-762. Adipose tissue is an active organ playing a role not only in metabolism but also in immune and inflammatory processes, releasing several pro-inflammatory mediators. This can explain the possible association between obesity and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and its role in the progression of the disease. Adipose and synovial tissues share common histological features of local inflammation in terms of activation of target tissues infiltrating cells (i.e. myeloid cells). Among the so-called adipocytokines, PEDF and Chemerin orchestrate the cellular cross-talk between adipose and myeloid cells, being possible biomarkers to monitor the effect of weight loss or the decrease of adipose tissue in patients with RA. Moreover, dietary intervention has been demonstrated to reduce Chemerin as well as IL-6 and MCP-1 expression. Finally, epigenetic regulators such as micro-RNAs (i.e. miR-155) are key regulators of myeloid cells activation in RA and obesity as well as in adipocytes. In this review, we will summarize the biological link between obesity/overweight state and RA focusing on pathophysiological mechanisms, consequences and management considerations.. Adipose tissue is an active organ playing a role not only in metabolism but also in immune and inflammatory processes, releasing several pro-inflammatory mediators. This can explain the possible association between obesity and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and its role in the progression of the disease. Adipose and synovial tissues share common histological features of local inflammation in terms of activation of target tissues infiltrating cells (i.e. myeloid cells). Among the so-called adipocytokines, PEDF and Chemerin orchestrate the cellular cross-talk between adipose and myeloid cells, being possible biomarkers to monitor the effect of weight loss or the decrease of adipose tissue in patients with RA. Moreover, dietary intervention has been demonstrated to reduce Chemerin as well as IL-6 and MCP-1 expression. Finally, epigenetic regulators such as micro-RNAs (i.e. miR-155) are key regulators of myeloid cells activation in RA and obesity as well as in adipocytes. In this review, we will summarize the biological link between obesity/overweight state and RA focusing on pathophysiological mechanisms, consequences and management considerations.

Toraih, E. A., N. M. Ismail, et al. (2016). "Precursor miR-499a Variant but not miR-196a2 is Associated with Rheumatoid Arthritis Susceptibility in an Egyptian Population." Mol Diagn Ther 20(3): 279-295. INTRODUCTION: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has a complex component induced by several genes that interact together with environmental and hormonal factors. We aimed to investigate the association of miR-196a2 rs11614913 (C/T) and miR-499a rs3746444 (A/G) polymorphisms and their combination with RA susceptibility and disease activity in an Egyptian population, and to evaluate their impact on methotrexate drug response and toxicity. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Bioinformatics databases were searched to select potential micro RNA (miRNA)-messenger RNA (mRNA) interactions involved in RA pathogenesis. Ninety-five RA patients diagnosed according to the American College of Rheumatology and 200 healthy controls were genotyped using real-time polymerase chain reaction technology. RESULTS: In overall and stratified analysis, miR-499a, but not miR-196a2, was associated with RA risk. Heterozygote carriers with rs3746444*A/G displayed protection against developing RA (p = 0.005) with an odds ratio of 0.2 (95 % confidence interval 0.17-0.62). The carriage of the combinations (miR499a*AG + miR196a2*CC) and (miR499a*AA + miR196a2*TT) were 3 and 7.5 times more likely to develop RA, respectively, while the combinations (miR499a*GG + miR196a2*CC), (miR499a*AG + miR196a2*TT) and (miR499a*AA + miR196a2*CT) show less susceptibility to have RA disease (all p < 0.05). rs3746444*AA genotype had a higher disease activity score (DAS28) [p = 0.023], tender joint count (TJC) (p = 0.007), and methotrexate-induced gastrointestinal toxicity (p = 0.043) compared with both AG/GG genotypes. rs11614913*C carriers were associated with higher DAS28 activity (p = 0.021). Homozygote male patients (CC and TT) had higher TJC (p = 0.046) and higher rheumatoid factor levels (p = 0.026), whereas, TT homozygote females had higher levels of ALT (p = 0.022). CONCLUSIONS: Different genotypes of miR-499a rs3746444 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are associated with RA risk, disease activity, and methotrexate toxicity in our population. In combination with specific miR-196a2 rs11614913 genotypes, this risk could increase or decrease according to the type of combination. Further functional analysis of the SNP and its impact on mRNA targets is required to confirm the relationship between genotype and phenotype.. INTRODUCTION: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has a complex component induced by several genes that interact together with environmental and hormonal factors. We aimed to investigate the association of miR-196a2 rs11614913 (C/T) and miR-499a rs3746444 (A/G) polymorphisms and their combination with RA susceptibility and disease activity in an Egyptian population, and to evaluate their impact on methotrexate drug response and toxicity. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Bioinformatics databases were searched to select potential micro RNA (miRNA)-messenger RNA (mRNA) interactions involved in RA pathogenesis. Ninety-five RA patients diagnosed according to the American College of Rheumatology and 200 healthy controls were genotyped using real-time polymerase chain reaction technology. RESULTS: In overall and stratified analysis, miR-499a, but not miR-196a2, was associated with RA risk. Heterozygote carriers with rs3746444*A/G displayed protection against developing RA (p = 0.005) with an odds ratio of 0.2 (95 % confidence interval 0.17-0.62). The carriage of the combinations (miR499a*AG + miR196a2*CC) and (miR499a*AA + miR196a2*TT) were 3 and 7.5 times more likely to develop RA, respectively, while the combinations (miR499a*GG + miR196a2*CC), (miR499a*AG + miR196a2*TT) and (miR499a*AA + miR196a2*CT) show less susceptibility to have RA disease (all p < 0.05). rs3746444*AA genotype had a higher disease activity score (DAS28) [p = 0.023], tender joint count (TJC) (p = 0.007), and methotrexate-induced gastrointestinal toxicity (p = 0.043) compared with both AG/GG genotypes. rs11614913*C carriers were associated with higher DAS28 activity (p = 0.021). Homozygote male patients (CC and TT) had higher TJC (p = 0.046) and higher rheumatoid factor levels (p = 0.026), whereas, TT homozygote females had higher levels of ALT (p = 0.022). CONCLUSIONS: Different genotypes of miR-499a rs3746444 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are associated with RA risk, disease activity, and methotrexate toxicity in our population. In combination with specific miR-196a2 rs11614913 genotypes, this risk could increase or decrease according to the type of combination. Further functional analysis of the SNP and its impact on mRNA targets is required to confirm the relationship between genotype and phenotype.

Torres, A., K. Torres, et al. (2011). "MicroRNAs and their role in gynecological tumors." Med Res Rev 31(6): 895-923. There have been only few events in the history of molecular biology that could be compared to the discovery of microRNAs and their role in cell physiology and pathology. MicroRNAs are small, single-stranded, noncoding RNAs composed of 19-25 nucleotides ( approximately 22 nt), which have been proven to regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. The regulatory function of microRNAs was demonstrated in normal and diseased conditions. In particular, it has been linked to cell cycle regulation, cell proliferation and differentiation, inflammatory response, and apoptosis. Altered expression profiles of microRNA have been observed in many pathologies, including diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and several cancers. To date, more than 700 human microRNAs have been identified and in silico-based analyses estimate at least 500 more to be identified. The purpose of this review is to present the current perspective on microRNAs structure and biogenesis as well as their contribution to the etiopathogenesis of gynecological tumors. We discuss results of the recent publications that indicate possibilities of microRNAs use as novel markers for tumors screening, early diagnosis, and treatment monitoring. The possible utilization of microRNAs as prognostic factors and specific therapy targets is also reviewed.. There have been only few events in the history of molecular biology that could be compared to the discovery of microRNAs and their role in cell physiology and pathology. MicroRNAs are small, single-stranded, noncoding RNAs composed of 19-25 nucleotides ( approximately 22 nt), which have been proven to regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. The regulatory function of microRNAs was demonstrated in normal and diseased conditions. In particular, it has been linked to cell cycle regulation, cell proliferation and differentiation, inflammatory response, and apoptosis. Altered expression profiles of microRNA have been observed in many pathologies, including diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and several cancers. To date, more than 700 human microRNAs have been identified and in silico-based analyses estimate at least 500 more to be identified. The purpose of this review is to present the current perspective on microRNAs structure and biogenesis as well as their contribution to the etiopathogenesis of gynecological tumors. We discuss results of the recent publications that indicate possibilities of microRNAs use as novel markers for tumors screening, early diagnosis, and treatment monitoring. The possible utilization of microRNAs as prognostic factors and specific therapy targets is also reviewed.

Trenkmann, M., M. Brock, et al. (2013). "Tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced microRNA-18a activates rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts through a feedback loop in NF-kappaB signaling." Arthritis Rheum 65(4): 916-927. OBJECTIVE: To elucidate whether the microRNA (miRNA) cluster miR-17-92 contributes to the activated phenotype of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: RASFs were stimulated with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), and the expression and regulation of the miR-17-92 cluster were studied using real-time quantitative PCR (PCR) and promoter activity assays. RASFs were transfected with single precursor molecules of miRNAs from miR-17-92 and the expression of matrix-degrading enzymes and cytokines was measured by quantitative PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Potential miRNA targets were identified by computational prediction and were validated using reporter gene assays and Western blotting. The activity of NF-kappaB signaling was determined by reporter gene assays. RESULTS: We found that TNFalpha induces the expression of miR-17-92 in RASFs in an NF-kappaB-dependent manner. Transfection of RASFs with precursor molecules of single members of miR-17-92 revealed significantly increased expression levels of matrix-degrading enzymes, proinflammatory cytokines, and chemokines in precursor miR-18a (pre-miR-18a)-transfected RASFs. Using reporter gene assays, we identified the NF-kappaB pathway inhibitor TNFalpha-induced protein 3 as a new target of miR-18a. In addition, pre-miR-18a-transfected RASFs showed stronger activation of NF-kappaB signaling, both constitutively and in response to TNFalpha stimulation. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that the miR-17-92-derived miR-18a contributes to cartilage destruction and chronic inflammation in the joint through a positive feedback loop in NF-kappaB signaling, with concomitant up-regulation of matrix-degrading enzymes and mediators of inflammation in RASFs.. OBJECTIVE: To elucidate whether the microRNA (miRNA) cluster miR-17-92 contributes to the activated phenotype of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: RASFs were stimulated with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), and the expression and regulation of the miR-17-92 cluster were studied using real-time quantitative PCR (PCR) and promoter activity assays. RASFs were transfected with single precursor molecules of miRNAs from miR-17-92 and the expression of matrix-degrading enzymes and cytokines was measured by quantitative PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Potential miRNA targets were identified by computational prediction and were validated using reporter gene assays and Western blotting. The activity of NF-kappaB signaling was determined by reporter gene assays. RESULTS: We found that TNFalpha induces the expression of miR-17-92 in RASFs in an NF-kappaB-dependent manner. Transfection of RASFs with precursor molecules of single members of miR-17-92 revealed significantly increased expression levels of matrix-degrading enzymes, proinflammatory cytokines, and chemokines in precursor miR-18a (pre-miR-18a)-transfected RASFs. Using reporter gene assays, we identified the NF-kappaB pathway inhibitor TNFalpha-induced protein 3 as a new target of miR-18a. In addition, pre-miR-18a-transfected RASFs showed stronger activation of NF-kappaB signaling, both constitutively and in response to TNFalpha stimulation. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that the miR-17-92-derived miR-18a contributes to cartilage destruction and chronic inflammation in the joint through a positive feedback loop in NF-kappaB signaling, with concomitant up-regulation of matrix-degrading enzymes and mediators of inflammation in RASFs.

Tsai, C. H., S. C. Liu, et al. (2017). "Osteopontin inhibition of miR-129-3p enhances IL-17 expression and monocyte migration in rheumatoid arthritis." Biochim Biophys Acta 1861(2): 15-22. BACKGROUND: Osteopontin (OPN) is an important proinflammatory cytokine in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Levels of OPN have been shown to be significantly correlated with interleukin-17 (IL-17) production and expression of Th17 cells in the synovial fluid of RA patients. Here, we investigated the role of OPN in monocyte migration, IL-17 production and osteoblasts. METHODS: OPN and IL-17 expression profiles in osteoarthritis (OA) and RA synovial fluid were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The expression of the microRNA, miR-129-3p, in osteoblasts was analyzed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Immunoreactive proteins were spotted by Western blotting. We used the collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model to investigate the role of OPN in monocyte migration during RA. RESULTS: OPN and IL-17 expression were higher in RA synovial fluid as compared to OA samples. We also found that OPN promotes IL-17 expression in osteoblasts and thereby enhances monocyte migration via the Syk/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. miR-129-3p expression was found to be negatively regulated by OPN via the Syk/PI3K/Akt signal cascade. In contrast, lentiviral vectors expressing short hairpin RNA inhibited OPN expression and ameliorated articular swelling, cartilage erosion and monocyte infiltration in the ankle joints of CIA mice. CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, our study is the first to describe how OPN promotes monocyte migration by upregulating IL-17 expression in osteoblasts in RA disease. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings indicate that OPN could serve as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of RA.. BACKGROUND: Osteopontin (OPN) is an important proinflammatory cytokine in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Levels of OPN have been shown to be significantly correlated with interleukin-17 (IL-17) production and expression of Th17 cells in the synovial fluid of RA patients. Here, we investigated the role of OPN in monocyte migration, IL-17 production and osteoblasts. METHODS: OPN and IL-17 expression profiles in osteoarthritis (OA) and RA synovial fluid were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The expression of the microRNA, miR-129-3p, in osteoblasts was analyzed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Immunoreactive proteins were spotted by Western blotting. We used the collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model to investigate the role of OPN in monocyte migration during RA. RESULTS: OPN and IL-17 expression were higher in RA synovial fluid as compared to OA samples. We also found that OPN promotes IL-17 expression in osteoblasts and thereby enhances monocyte migration via the Syk/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. miR-129-3p expression was found to be negatively regulated by OPN via the Syk/PI3K/Akt signal cascade. In contrast, lentiviral vectors expressing short hairpin RNA inhibited OPN expression and ameliorated articular swelling, cartilage erosion and monocyte infiltration in the ankle joints of CIA mice. CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, our study is the first to describe how OPN promotes monocyte migration by upregulating IL-17 expression in osteoblasts in RA disease. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings indicate that OPN could serve as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of RA.

van der Geest, K. S., K. Smigielska-Czepiel, et al. (2015). "SF Treg cells transcribing high levels of Bcl-2 and microRNA-21 demonstrate limited apoptosis in RA." Rheumatology (Oxford) 54(5): 950-958. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the turnover of Treg cells in the SF of RA patients. METHODS: Treg cells were enumerated in peripheral blood and SF of RA patients and analysed by flow cytometry for expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 and binding of the apoptosis marker annexin V. Sorted Treg cells of RA patients were analysed for expression of anti-apoptotic regulators Bcl-2 and microRNA-21 (miR-21) by RT-PCR. RESULTS: Treg cells displaying a memory phenotype were abundant in the SF of RA patients. SF Treg cells more frequently expressed the proliferation marker Ki-67 than conventional T cells. Only few SF Treg cells were apoptotic, as indicated by limited annexin V staining of these cells. SF Treg cells displayed high transcription levels of Bcl-2 and miR-21 in comparison with SF conventional T cells and peripheral blood Treg cells. CONCLUSION: Treg cells with a memory phenotype accumulate in the SF of RA patients. These Treg cells have a high proliferative activity and demonstrate little apoptosis. The latter finding could be explained by high transcription of Bcl-2 and miR-21 in SF Treg cells.. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the turnover of Treg cells in the SF of RA patients. METHODS: Treg cells were enumerated in peripheral blood and SF of RA patients and analysed by flow cytometry for expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 and binding of the apoptosis marker annexin V. Sorted Treg cells of RA patients were analysed for expression of anti-apoptotic regulators Bcl-2 and microRNA-21 (miR-21) by RT-PCR. RESULTS: Treg cells displaying a memory phenotype were abundant in the SF of RA patients. SF Treg cells more frequently expressed the proliferation marker Ki-67 than conventional T cells. Only few SF Treg cells were apoptotic, as indicated by limited annexin V staining of these cells. SF Treg cells displayed high transcription levels of Bcl-2 and miR-21 in comparison with SF conventional T cells and peripheral blood Treg cells. CONCLUSION: Treg cells with a memory phenotype accumulate in the SF of RA patients. These Treg cells have a high proliferative activity and demonstrate little apoptosis. The latter finding could be explained by high transcription of Bcl-2 and miR-21 in SF Treg cells.

Vicente, R., D. Noel, et al. (2016). "Deregulation and therapeutic potential of microRNAs in arthritic diseases." Nat Rev Rheumatol 12(4): 211-220. Epigenetic abnormalities are part of the pathogenetic alterations involved in the development of rheumatic disorders. In this context, the main musculoskeletal cell lineages, which are generated from the pool of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), and the immune cells that participate in rheumatic diseases are deregulated. In this Review, we focus on microRNA (miRNA)-mediated regulatory pathways that control cell proliferation, drive the production of proinflammatory mediators and modulate bone remodelling. The main studies that identify miRNAs as regulators of immune cell fate, MSC differentiation and immunomodulatory properties - parameters that are altered in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) - are also discussed, with emphasis on the importance of miRNAs in the regulation of cellular machinery, extracellular matrix remodelling and cytokine release. A deeper understanding of the involvement of miRNAs in rheumatic diseases is needed before these regulatory pathways can be explored as therapeutic approaches for patients with RA or OA.. Epigenetic abnormalities are part of the pathogenetic alterations involved in the development of rheumatic disorders. In this context, the main musculoskeletal cell lineages, which are generated from the pool of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), and the immune cells that participate in rheumatic diseases are deregulated. In this Review, we focus on microRNA (miRNA)-mediated regulatory pathways that control cell proliferation, drive the production of proinflammatory mediators and modulate bone remodelling. The main studies that identify miRNAs as regulators of immune cell fate, MSC differentiation and immunomodulatory properties - parameters that are altered in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) - are also discussed, with emphasis on the importance of miRNAs in the regulation of cellular machinery, extracellular matrix remodelling and cytokine release. A deeper understanding of the involvement of miRNAs in rheumatic diseases is needed before these regulatory pathways can be explored as therapeutic approaches for patients with RA or OA.

Wan, Q., Z. Zhou, et al. (2015). "The miR-30a Negatively Regulates IL-17-Mediated Signal Transduction by Targeting Traf3ip2." J Interferon Cytokine Res 35(11): 917-923. Interleukin-17 (IL-17) has been proved to be involved in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases, including lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and inflammatory bowel disease. The regulation of IL-17 signal transduction is less studied. miR-30a has been identified to be downregulated in these human autoimmune diseases and their related animal models. However, how it functions in IL-17-mediated inflammation and the pathogenesis of these diseases remain unknown. In this study, we showed that miR-30a inhibits IL-17-mediated NF-kappaB and MAPK activation, leading to the reduced production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. miR-30a also reduced mRNA stability triggered by IL-17 stimulation. These suppressive effects of miR-30a were mediated by directly targeting Traf3ip2 mRNA (coding for Act1). Thus, we concluded that the downregulation of miR-30a in autoimmune diseases may exacerbate IL-17-mediated inflammation, which may serve as a potential target for the therapy of these diseases.. Interleukin-17 (IL-17) has been proved to be involved in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases, including lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and inflammatory bowel disease. The regulation of IL-17 signal transduction is less studied. miR-30a has been identified to be downregulated in these human autoimmune diseases and their related animal models. However, how it functions in IL-17-mediated inflammation and the pathogenesis of these diseases remain unknown. In this study, we showed that miR-30a inhibits IL-17-mediated NF-kappaB and MAPK activation, leading to the reduced production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. miR-30a also reduced mRNA stability triggered by IL-17 stimulation. These suppressive effects of miR-30a were mediated by directly targeting Traf3ip2 mRNA (coding for Act1). Thus, we concluded that the downregulation of miR-30a in autoimmune diseases may exacerbate IL-17-mediated inflammation, which may serve as a potential target for the therapy of these diseases.

Wang, L., G. Song, et al. (2016). "miR-573 is a negative regulator in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis." Cell Mol Immunol 13(6): 839-849. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by abnormal inflammation, angiogenesis, and cartilage destruction. Our previous study demonstrated an increased expression of thioredoxin domain containing 5 (TXNDC5) in the synovial tissues of RA, and its overexpression was implicated in RA pathology. Although TXNDC5 variation is linked to genetic susceptibility to RA, the regulation of its abnormal expression has not been well defined. Here, we show that TXNDC5 is directly targeted by microRNA (miR)-573, and TXNDC5, in turn, mediates the suppressive effect of miR-573 on the invasion of synovial fibroblasts of RA (RASFs). miR-573 overexpression suppressed the expression of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and cyclooxygenase 2 in RASFs, as well as the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta by activated THP-1 cells in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. Moreover, treatment with conditioned medium of RASFs transfected with miR-573 mimic inhibited the angiogenic ability of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Of note, epidermal growth factor receptor and Toll-like receptor 2 were validated as new direct targets of miR-573, and mediate the regulation of miR-573 on IL-6 production as well as the angiogenesis of HUVECs. In addition, exogenous miR-573 expression suppressed the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase/activate protein kinase B in RASFs in response to LPS. Indeed, MAPK signaling was essential to ensure the function of miR-573. Taken together, our study points toward the protective roles of miR-573 in the pathological process of RA and suggests a potential target in the treatment of RA.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by abnormal inflammation, angiogenesis, and cartilage destruction. Our previous study demonstrated an increased expression of thioredoxin domain containing 5 (TXNDC5) in the synovial tissues of RA, and its overexpression was implicated in RA pathology. Although TXNDC5 variation is linked to genetic susceptibility to RA, the regulation of its abnormal expression has not been well defined. Here, we show that TXNDC5 is directly targeted by microRNA (miR)-573, and TXNDC5, in turn, mediates the suppressive effect of miR-573 on the invasion of synovial fibroblasts of RA (RASFs). miR-573 overexpression suppressed the expression of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and cyclooxygenase 2 in RASFs, as well as the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta by activated THP-1 cells in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. Moreover, treatment with conditioned medium of RASFs transfected with miR-573 mimic inhibited the angiogenic ability of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Of note, epidermal growth factor receptor and Toll-like receptor 2 were validated as new direct targets of miR-573, and mediate the regulation of miR-573 on IL-6 production as well as the angiogenesis of HUVECs. In addition, exogenous miR-573 expression suppressed the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase/activate protein kinase B in RASFs in response to LPS. Indeed, MAPK signaling was essential to ensure the function of miR-573. Taken together, our study points toward the protective roles of miR-573 in the pathological process of RA and suggests a potential target in the treatment of RA.

Wang, S., M. Yuan, et al. (2017). "Expression of Dicer in rheumatoid arthritis is associated with disease activity and balances the production of TNFalpha." Mol Med Rep 16(2): 1590-1595. Gene expression can be altered through RNA interference (RNAi), including microRNA (miRNA) or small interfering RNA. Alterations of miRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have been reported, however, the components of the RNAi machinery in RA remain to be fully elucidated. The aim of the present study was to detect the levels of Dicer, Argonaute2 and Drosha, components of the RNAi machinery, in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with RAusingreverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction, and to compare the results with disease activity and clinical features. Disease activity was assessed using the Disease Activity Score 28 (DAS28). Transfection and stimulation of cultured cells were conducted to determine the biological function of Dicer. ELISA was used to test tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha protein levels. It was found that the mRNA expression levels of Dicer and Drosha were upregulated in patients with RA, and that the increased level of Dicer was correlated with disease activity in patients with RA. Dicer and TNFalpha were activated in the serum of patients with RA. The activation of Dicer suppressed the production of TNFalpha. These results suggested that Dicer can balance the production of TNFalpha, and thus may serve as a regulator of the immune response in patients with RA.. Gene expression can be altered through RNA interference (RNAi), including microRNA (miRNA) or small interfering RNA. Alterations of miRNAs in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have been reported, however, the components of the RNAi machinery in RA remain to be fully elucidated. The aim of the present study was to detect the levels of Dicer, Argonaute2 and Drosha, components of the RNAi machinery, in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with RAusingreverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction, and to compare the results with disease activity and clinical features. Disease activity was assessed using the Disease Activity Score 28 (DAS28). Transfection and stimulation of cultured cells were conducted to determine the biological function of Dicer. ELISA was used to test tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha protein levels. It was found that the mRNA expression levels of Dicer and Drosha were upregulated in patients with RA, and that the increased level of Dicer was correlated with disease activity in patients with RA. Dicer and TNFalpha were activated in the serum of patients with RA. The activation of Dicer suppressed the production of TNFalpha. These results suggested that Dicer can balance the production of TNFalpha, and thus may serve as a regulator of the immune response in patients with RA.

Wang, W., Y. Zhang, et al. (2015). "Plasma microRNA expression profiles in Chinese patients with rheumatoid arthritis." Oncotarget 6(40): 42557-42568. The outstanding characteristics of circulatory microRNAs (miRNAs) attract much attention in research on disease biomarkers and disease pathogenesis. This study aimed to identify the expression profiles of plasma miRNAs in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Thirty-three miRNAs were screened using an miRNA array, of which 9 miRNAs were validated as differentially expressed in the plasma of RA patients compared with healthy controls (HCs). miRNA-4634 (miR-4634), miR-181d and miR-4764-5p expression levels were increased, whereas miR-342-3p, miR-3926, miR-3925-3p, miR-122-3p, miR-9-5p and miR-219-2-3p expression levels were decreased in RA patients. The areas under the curve (AUCs) were generated to estimate the sensitivity and specificity of each miRNA or the panel of all 9 miRNAs as biomarkers for RA. AUCs for 9 individual miRNAs ranged from 0.6254 to 0.818; however, the AUC for the panel of 9 miRNAs reached 0.964. Levels of miR-122-3p, miR-3925-3p, miR-342-3p and miR-4764-5p expression showed significant differences between RA and other control groups. miR-4764-5p, miR-4634, miR-9-5p and miR-219-2-3p exhibited significant correlations with either plasma cytokine and chemokine levels or clinical features. In conclusion, this study identified 9-plasma miRNAs signature in Chinese patients with RA which may serve as noninvasive biomarkers for the diagnosis of RA.. The outstanding characteristics of circulatory microRNAs (miRNAs) attract much attention in research on disease biomarkers and disease pathogenesis. This study aimed to identify the expression profiles of plasma miRNAs in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Thirty-three miRNAs were screened using an miRNA array, of which 9 miRNAs were validated as differentially expressed in the plasma of RA patients compared with healthy controls (HCs). miRNA-4634 (miR-4634), miR-181d and miR-4764-5p expression levels were increased, whereas miR-342-3p, miR-3926, miR-3925-3p, miR-122-3p, miR-9-5p and miR-219-2-3p expression levels were decreased in RA patients. The areas under the curve (AUCs) were generated to estimate the sensitivity and specificity of each miRNA or the panel of all 9 miRNAs as biomarkers for RA. AUCs for 9 individual miRNAs ranged from 0.6254 to 0.818; however, the AUC for the panel of 9 miRNAs reached 0.964. Levels of miR-122-3p, miR-3925-3p, miR-342-3p and miR-4764-5p expression showed significant differences between RA and other control groups. miR-4764-5p, miR-4634, miR-9-5p and miR-219-2-3p exhibited significant correlations with either plasma cytokine and chemokine levels or clinical features. In conclusion, this study identified 9-plasma miRNAs signature in Chinese patients with RA which may serve as noninvasive biomarkers for the diagnosis of RA.

Wang, X., J. Bai, et al. (2017). "A time-course microarray data analysis reveals consistent dysregulated genes and upstream microRNAs in autoantibody-mediated arthritis." J Orthop Surg Res 12(1): 186. BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to identify key genes and microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in autoantibody-mediated arthritis (AMA). METHODS: A time-course microarray data (ID: GSE27492) of peripheral blood leukocytes, ankle tissue, and synovial fluid from K/BxN mouse serum-transferred mice were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus. Those samples were collected at days 0, 1, 3, 7, 12, and 18 after serum injection. Limma of R was employed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in samples collected at days 1-18 compared with those collected at day 0. Consistent DEGs were obtained by taking the interaction of DEGs from different time points, followed by functional enrichment analysis. MiRNAs were screened out and constructed into regulatory network with DEGs using Cytoscape. RESULTS: In total, 17 consistent DEGs were obtained, including downregulated Ephx1 and upregulated AF251705, Adam8, Arg1, Basp1, Ccl2, Ccl7, Ccl9, Ccr2, Clec4a2, Clec4d, Cxcl1, Fabp5, Fcgr1, Gp49a, Il1rn, and Saa3. Those DEGs were associated with biological processes of immune response, inflammatory response, and defense response; chemokine signaling pathway; cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction; and NOD-like receptor signaling pathway. Additionally, 202 miRNAs were identified to have a regulatory effect on 9 of the 17 DEGs. Notably, miR-944, miR-374a, and miR374b were found to regulate the expression of Cxcl1, Ccl7, and Ccl2. Clec4d was targeted by 78 miRNAs. CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals that 17 DEGs and 202 miRNAs may be associated with autoimmune disorder in the progression of AMA, which could guide future researches.. BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to identify key genes and microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in autoantibody-mediated arthritis (AMA). METHODS: A time-course microarray data (ID: GSE27492) of peripheral blood leukocytes, ankle tissue, and synovial fluid from K/BxN mouse serum-transferred mice were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus. Those samples were collected at days 0, 1, 3, 7, 12, and 18 after serum injection. Limma of R was employed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in samples collected at days 1-18 compared with those collected at day 0. Consistent DEGs were obtained by taking the interaction of DEGs from different time points, followed by functional enrichment analysis. MiRNAs were screened out and constructed into regulatory network with DEGs using Cytoscape. RESULTS: In total, 17 consistent DEGs were obtained, including downregulated Ephx1 and upregulated AF251705, Adam8, Arg1, Basp1, Ccl2, Ccl7, Ccl9, Ccr2, Clec4a2, Clec4d, Cxcl1, Fabp5, Fcgr1, Gp49a, Il1rn, and Saa3. Those DEGs were associated with biological processes of immune response, inflammatory response, and defense response; chemokine signaling pathway; cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction; and NOD-like receptor signaling pathway. Additionally, 202 miRNAs were identified to have a regulatory effect on 9 of the 17 DEGs. Notably, miR-944, miR-374a, and miR374b were found to regulate the expression of Cxcl1, Ccl7, and Ccl2. Clec4d was targeted by 78 miRNAs. CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals that 17 DEGs and 202 miRNAs may be associated with autoimmune disorder in the progression of AMA, which could guide future researches.

Wang, X., X. Si, et al. (2018). "miR-522 Modulated the Expression of Proinflammatory Cytokines and Matrix Metalloproteinases Partly via Targeting Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 3 in Rheumatoid Arthritis Synovial Fibroblasts." DNA Cell Biol 37(4): 405-415. microRNAs have been reported to play important roles in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study examined the effects of miR-522 on the biological behaviors of RA synovial fibroblasts. The expression levels of miR-522 and relevant genes were measured by quantitative real-time PCR. The protein levels of cytokines were determined by ELISA assay. The protein levels of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) were determined by western blot assay. Luciferase reporter assay was used to confirm the potential target of miR-522. Our results showed that miR-522 was upregulated in synovial fibroblasts from RA patients, and miR-522 expression level was significantly associated with the RA-associated clinical parameters. miR-522 overexpression increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and MMPs (MMP-1, MMP-3, and MMP-13) in RA synovial fibroblasts. Lipopolysaccharide induced the upregulation of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and MMPs in RA synovial fibroblasts, which was reversed by miR-522 knockdown. Bioinformatics analysis identified SOCS3 as a potential target of miR-522, and this target of miR-522 was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay, and miR-522 overexpression suppressed the mRNA and protein expression levels of SOCS3. The enforced expression of SOCS3 attenuated the enhanced effects of miR-522 on mRNA expression levels of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and MMPs. Collectively, our results suggested that miR-522 regulated the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and MMPs partly via targeting SOCS3 in RA synovial fibroblasts, which may contribute to pathogenesis of RA.. microRNAs have been reported to play important roles in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study examined the effects of miR-522 on the biological behaviors of RA synovial fibroblasts. The expression levels of miR-522 and relevant genes were measured by quantitative real-time PCR. The protein levels of cytokines were determined by ELISA assay. The protein levels of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) were determined by western blot assay. Luciferase reporter assay was used to confirm the potential target of miR-522. Our results showed that miR-522 was upregulated in synovial fibroblasts from RA patients, and miR-522 expression level was significantly associated with the RA-associated clinical parameters. miR-522 overexpression increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and MMPs (MMP-1, MMP-3, and MMP-13) in RA synovial fibroblasts. Lipopolysaccharide induced the upregulation of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and MMPs in RA synovial fibroblasts, which was reversed by miR-522 knockdown. Bioinformatics analysis identified SOCS3 as a potential target of miR-522, and this target of miR-522 was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay, and miR-522 overexpression suppressed the mRNA and protein expression levels of SOCS3. The enforced expression of SOCS3 attenuated the enhanced effects of miR-522 on mRNA expression levels of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and MMPs. Collectively, our results suggested that miR-522 regulated the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and MMPs partly via targeting SOCS3 in RA synovial fibroblasts, which may contribute to pathogenesis of RA.

Wang, Z. C., H. Lu, et al. (2015). "MiR-451 inhibits synovial fibroblasts proliferation and inflammatory cytokines secretion in rheumatoid arthritis through mediating p38MAPK signaling pathway." Int J Clin Exp Pathol 8(11): 14562-14567. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease characterized as joint synovial inflammation. MicroRNA is a group of small noncoding RNA molecules discovered in recent years that can posttranscriptional regulate mRNA expression and involved in a variety processes of immune cell activation and differentiation. There is still lack of study about the role of miR-451 in rheumatoid arthritis. Synovial fibroblasts isolated from rheumatoid arthritis patients were cultured in vitro. Chemical synthesized miR-451 was lipo-transfected, real-time RT-PCR was applied to detect miR-451 expression level, and MTT method was used to detect the effect of miR-451 on synovial fibroblasts proliferation. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to detect tumor necrosis factor TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 level in the supernatant. Western blot was applied to test target protein p38 MAPK expression level. Our study found that synovial fibroblasts expressed higher miR-451 mRNA level in miR-451 treatment group. MiR-451 treatment significantly decreased cell proliferation ability (P < 0.05). Compared with the control, p38 MAPK protein expression reduced obviously in the miR-451 treatment group (P < 0.05). MiR-451 transfected synovial fibroblasts secreted lower levels of TNF-alpha (198 +/- 12 pg/ml vs 124 +/- 13 pg/ml, P < 0.01), IL-1beta (352 +/- 43 pg/ml vs 165 +/- 87 pg/ml, P < 0.01), and IL-6 (487 +/- 84 pg/ml vs 257 +/- 92 pg/ml, P < 0.01). The results proved that miR-451 can down-regulate p38 MAPK protein expression, and reduce synovial fibroblasts proliferation and cytokine expression level.. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease characterized as joint synovial inflammation. MicroRNA is a group of small noncoding RNA molecules discovered in recent years that can posttranscriptional regulate mRNA expression and involved in a variety processes of immune cell activation and differentiation. There is still lack of study about the role of miR-451 in rheumatoid arthritis. Synovial fibroblasts isolated from rheumatoid arthritis patients were cultured in vitro. Chemical synthesized miR-451 was lipo-transfected, real-time RT-PCR was applied to detect miR-451 expression level, and MTT method was used to detect the effect of miR-451 on synovial fibroblasts proliferation. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to detect tumor necrosis factor TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 level in the supernatant. Western blot was applied to test target protein p38 MAPK expression level. Our study found that synovial fibroblasts expressed higher miR-451 mRNA level in miR-451 treatment group. MiR-451 treatment significantly decreased cell proliferation ability (P < 0.05). Compared with the control, p38 MAPK protein expression reduced obviously in the miR-451 treatment group (P < 0.05). MiR-451 transfected synovial fibroblasts secreted lower levels of TNF-alpha (198 +/- 12 pg/ml vs 124 +/- 13 pg/ml, P < 0.01), IL-1beta (352 +/- 43 pg/ml vs 165 +/- 87 pg/ml, P < 0.01), and IL-6 (487 +/- 84 pg/ml vs 257 +/- 92 pg/ml, P < 0.01). The results proved that miR-451 can down-regulate p38 MAPK protein expression, and reduce synovial fibroblasts proliferation and cytokine expression level.

Wei, X. J., X. W. Li, et al. (2017). "MiR-20a regulates fibroblast-like synoviocyte proliferation and apoptosis in rheumatoid arthritis." Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 21(17): 3886-3893. OBJECTIVE: STAT3 expression is elevated in the synovial tissue of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). MiR-20a plays a role in mediating synovial inflammation in RA. Bioinformatics analysis has identified a binding site between miR-20 and the 3'-UTR of STAT3 mRNA. This study aimed to investigate the role of miR-20a in the regulation of STAT3 expression and synovial cell proliferation as well as apoptosis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Synovial tissues were collected from RA patients and osteoarthritis (OA) patients to measure miR-20a, STAT3, p-STAT3, and Ki-67 expressions. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were treated with IL-17 (10 ng/ml) and then Ki-67 expression and cell cycle were evaluated by flow cytometry. The targeting relationship between miR-20a and STAT3 was assessed by dual luciferase reporter gene assay. FLS cells were divided into five groups: miR-NC, miR-20a mimic, si-NC, si-STAT3, and miR-20a mimic + si-STAT3 groups. RESULTS: In RA patients, significantly lower MiR-20a expression, and substantially higher STAT3, p-STAT3, and Ki-67 expression were found in the synovial tissues compared with those in OA patients. IL-17A treatment markedly promoted FLS cell proliferation, inhibited cell apoptosis, reduced miR-20a expression, as well as upregulated levels of STAT3, p-STAT3, and Bcl-2. MiR-20a played a regulatory function on the expression of STAT3. MiR-20a mimic and/or si-STAT3 transfection apparently downregulated STAT3, p-STAT3, and Bcl-2 expression, attenuated IL-17A-induced cell proliferation promotive and enhanced cell apoptosis in FLS cells. CONCLUSIONS: The expression of miR-20a was reduced in synovial tissue of RA patients with the increased level of STAT3. Downregulation of miR-20a promoted the expression of STAT3, p-STAT3, and Bcl-2, facilitated FLS cell proliferation, reduced apoptosis and, thereby, played a critical role in RA.. OBJECTIVE: STAT3 expression is elevated in the synovial tissue of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). MiR-20a plays a role in mediating synovial inflammation in RA. Bioinformatics analysis has identified a binding site between miR-20 and the 3'-UTR of STAT3 mRNA. This study aimed to investigate the role of miR-20a in the regulation of STAT3 expression and synovial cell proliferation as well as apoptosis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Synovial tissues were collected from RA patients and osteoarthritis (OA) patients to measure miR-20a, STAT3, p-STAT3, and Ki-67 expressions. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were treated with IL-17 (10 ng/ml) and then Ki-67 expression and cell cycle were evaluated by flow cytometry. The targeting relationship between miR-20a and STAT3 was assessed by dual luciferase reporter gene assay. FLS cells were divided into five groups: miR-NC, miR-20a mimic, si-NC, si-STAT3, and miR-20a mimic + si-STAT3 groups. RESULTS: In RA patients, significantly lower MiR-20a expression, and substantially higher STAT3, p-STAT3, and Ki-67 expression were found in the synovial tissues compared with those in OA patients. IL-17A treatment markedly promoted FLS cell proliferation, inhibited cell apoptosis, reduced miR-20a expression, as well as upregulated levels of STAT3, p-STAT3, and Bcl-2. MiR-20a played a regulatory function on the expression of STAT3. MiR-20a mimic and/or si-STAT3 transfection apparently downregulated STAT3, p-STAT3, and Bcl-2 expression, attenuated IL-17A-induced cell proliferation promotive and enhanced cell apoptosis in FLS cells. CONCLUSIONS: The expression of miR-20a was reduced in synovial tissue of RA patients with the increased level of STAT3. Downregulation of miR-20a promoted the expression of STAT3, p-STAT3, and Bcl-2, facilitated FLS cell proliferation, reduced apoptosis and, thereby, played a critical role in RA.

Wei, Y., J. Yang, et al. (2014). "MiR-223-3p targeting SEPT6 promotes the biological behavior of prostate cancer." Sci Rep 4: 7546. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) present frequently altered expression in urologic cancers including prostate, bladder, and kidney cancer. The altered expression of miR-223 has been reported in cancers and other diseases in recent researches. MiR-223 is up-regulated in systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. In neoplastic diseases, miR-223 is proved to be up-expressed in plasma or serum and cancer tissues compared with normal tissues in pancreatic cancer, gastric cancer, et al. However, whether altered expression of miR-223 is associated with prostate cancer (PCa) and what it is potential functions in PCa remained unveiled. In this study, we firstly found miR-223-3p were up-regulated in prostate cancer tissues and then we study functional role of miR-223-3p in PCa using DU145, PC3 and LNCaP cell lines. Our data suggested that miR-223-3p might target gene SEPT6 and promoted the biological behavior of prostate cancer. Notably, we found increasing SEPT6 expression might reverse the biological activity induced by miR-223-3p, which might be a potential therapeutic target for PCa.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) present frequently altered expression in urologic cancers including prostate, bladder, and kidney cancer. The altered expression of miR-223 has been reported in cancers and other diseases in recent researches. MiR-223 is up-regulated in systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. In neoplastic diseases, miR-223 is proved to be up-expressed in plasma or serum and cancer tissues compared with normal tissues in pancreatic cancer, gastric cancer, et al. However, whether altered expression of miR-223 is associated with prostate cancer (PCa) and what it is potential functions in PCa remained unveiled. In this study, we firstly found miR-223-3p were up-regulated in prostate cancer tissues and then we study functional role of miR-223-3p in PCa using DU145, PC3 and LNCaP cell lines. Our data suggested that miR-223-3p might target gene SEPT6 and promoted the biological behavior of prostate cancer. Notably, we found increasing SEPT6 expression might reverse the biological activity induced by miR-223-3p, which might be a potential therapeutic target for PCa.

Williams, A. E., K. Choi, et al. (2016). "Sjogren's syndrome-associated microRNAs in CD14(+) monocytes unveils targeted TGFbeta signaling." Arthritis Res Ther 18(1): 95. BACKGROUND: Sjogren's syndrome (SjS) monocytes have a pro-inflammatory phenotype, which may influence SjS pathogenesis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenously expressed molecules that can inhibit protein expression of their targeted genes and have important functions in regulating cell signaling responses. We profiled miRNAs in SjS monocytes to identify a SjS-specific miRNA profile and determine the potential roles of miRNAs in SjS pathogenesis. METHODS: Total RNA was extracted from healthy control (HC, n = 10), SjS (n = 18), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, n = 10), and rheumatoid arthritis (RA, n = 10) peripheral blood CD14(+) monocytes for miRNA microarray analysis. To validate select miRNAs from the microarray analysis, the original cohort and a new cohort of monocyte RNA samples from HC (n = 9), SjS (n = 12), SLE (n = 8), and RA (n = 9) patients were evaluated by quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. Functional predictions of differentially expressed miRNAs were determined through miRNA target prediction database analyses. Statistical analyses performed included one-way analysis of variance with Bonferroni post tests, linear regression, and receiver operating characteristic curve analyses. RESULTS: MiRNAs were predominantly upregulated in SjS monocytes in comparison with controls. Quantitative RT-PCR confirmations supported co-regulation of miR-34b-3p, miR-4701-5p, miR-609, miR-300, miR-3162-3p, and miR-877-3p in SjS monocytes (13/30, 43.3 %) in comparison with SLE (1/17, 5.8 %) and RA (1/18, 5.6 %). MiRNA-target pathway predictions identified SjS-associated miRNAs appear to preferentially target the canonical TGFbeta signaling pathway as opposed to pro-inflammatory interleukin-12 and Toll-like receptor/NFkB pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Our results underscore a novel underlying molecular mechanism where SjS-associated miRNAs may collectively suppress TGFbeta signaling as opposed to pro-inflammatory interleukin-12 and Toll-like receptor/NFkappaB pathways in SjS pathogenesis.. BACKGROUND: Sjogren's syndrome (SjS) monocytes have a pro-inflammatory phenotype, which may influence SjS pathogenesis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenously expressed molecules that can inhibit protein expression of their targeted genes and have important functions in regulating cell signaling responses. We profiled miRNAs in SjS monocytes to identify a SjS-specific miRNA profile and determine the potential roles of miRNAs in SjS pathogenesis. METHODS: Total RNA was extracted from healthy control (HC, n = 10), SjS (n = 18), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, n = 10), and rheumatoid arthritis (RA, n = 10) peripheral blood CD14(+) monocytes for miRNA microarray analysis. To validate select miRNAs from the microarray analysis, the original cohort and a new cohort of monocyte RNA samples from HC (n = 9), SjS (n = 12), SLE (n = 8), and RA (n = 9) patients were evaluated by quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. Functional predictions of differentially expressed miRNAs were determined through miRNA target prediction database analyses. Statistical analyses performed included one-way analysis of variance with Bonferroni post tests, linear regression, and receiver operating characteristic curve analyses. RESULTS: MiRNAs were predominantly upregulated in SjS monocytes in comparison with controls. Quantitative RT-PCR confirmations supported co-regulation of miR-34b-3p, miR-4701-5p, miR-609, miR-300, miR-3162-3p, and miR-877-3p in SjS monocytes (13/30, 43.3 %) in comparison with SLE (1/17, 5.8 %) and RA (1/18, 5.6 %). MiRNA-target pathway predictions identified SjS-associated miRNAs appear to preferentially target the canonical TGFbeta signaling pathway as opposed to pro-inflammatory interleukin-12 and Toll-like receptor/NFkB pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Our results underscore a novel underlying molecular mechanism where SjS-associated miRNAs may collectively suppress TGFbeta signaling as opposed to pro-inflammatory interleukin-12 and Toll-like receptor/NFkappaB pathways in SjS pathogenesis.

Withrow, J., C. Murphy, et al. (2016). "Extracellular vesicles in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis." Arthritis Res Ther 18(1): 286. Osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are both debilitating diseases that cause significant morbidity in the US population. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes and microvesicles, are now recognized to play important roles in cell-to-cell communication by transporting various proteins, microRNAs (miRNAs), and mRNAs. EV-derived proteins and miRNAs impact cell viability and cell differentiation, and are likely to play a prominent role in the pathophysiology of both OA and RA. Some of the processes by which these membrane-bound vesicles can alter joint tissue include extracellular matrix degradation, cell-to-cell communication, modulation of inflammation, angiogenesis, and antigen presentation. For example, EVs from IL-1beta-stimulated fibroblast-like synoviocytes have been shown to induce osteoarthritic changes in chondrocytes. RA models have shown that EVs stimulated with inflammatory cytokines are capable of inducing apoptosis resistance in T cells, presenting antigen to T cells, and causing extracellular damage with matrix-degrading enzymes. EVs derived from rheumatoid models have also been shown to induce secretion of COX-2 and stimulate angiogenesis. Additionally, there is evidence that synovium-derived EVs may be promising biomarkers of disease in both OA and RA. The characterization of EVs in the joint space has also opened up the possibility for delivery of small molecules. This article reviews current knowledge on the role of EVs in both RA and OA, and their potential role as therapeutic targets for modulation of these debilitating diseases.. Osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are both debilitating diseases that cause significant morbidity in the US population. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes and microvesicles, are now recognized to play important roles in cell-to-cell communication by transporting various proteins, microRNAs (miRNAs), and mRNAs. EV-derived proteins and miRNAs impact cell viability and cell differentiation, and are likely to play a prominent role in the pathophysiology of both OA and RA. Some of the processes by which these membrane-bound vesicles can alter joint tissue include extracellular matrix degradation, cell-to-cell communication, modulation of inflammation, angiogenesis, and antigen presentation. For example, EVs from IL-1beta-stimulated fibroblast-like synoviocytes have been shown to induce osteoarthritic changes in chondrocytes. RA models have shown that EVs stimulated with inflammatory cytokines are capable of inducing apoptosis resistance in T cells, presenting antigen to T cells, and causing extracellular damage with matrix-degrading enzymes. EVs derived from rheumatoid models have also been shown to induce secretion of COX-2 and stimulate angiogenesis. Additionally, there is evidence that synovium-derived EVs may be promising biomarkers of disease in both OA and RA. The characterization of EVs in the joint space has also opened up the possibility for delivery of small molecules. This article reviews current knowledge on the role of EVs in both RA and OA, and their potential role as therapeutic targets for modulation of these debilitating diseases.

Wittmann, J., H. M. Jack, et al. (2011). "[MicroRNAs in B-cells and T-cells as regulators of inflammation]." Z Rheumatol 70(6): 507-510. MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs which are crucial for the fine regulation of gene expression. Recent results suggest that these molecules display multifaceted functions in B-cells and T-cells in rheumatic inflammatory diseases.. MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs which are crucial for the fine regulation of gene expression. Recent results suggest that these molecules display multifaceted functions in B-cells and T-cells in rheumatic inflammatory diseases.

Wohlers, I., L. Bertram, et al. (2018). "Evidence for a potential role of miR-1908-5p and miR-3614-5p in autoimmune disease risk using integrative bioinformatics." J AutoimmunGenome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a large number of genetic risk loci for autoimmune diseases. However, the functional variants underlying these disease associations remain largely unknown. There is evidence that microRNA-mediated regulation may play an important role in this context. Therefore, we assessed whether autoimmune disease loci unfold their effects via altering microRNA expression in relevant immune cells. To this end, we performed comprehensive data integration of many large and publicly available datasets to combine information on autoimmune disease risk loci with RNA-Seq-based microRNA expression data. Specifically, we carried out microRNA expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analyses across 115 GWAS regions associated with 12 autoimmune diseases using next-generation sequencing data of 345 lymphoblastoid cell lines. Statistical analyses included the application and extension of a recently proposed framework (joint likelihood mapping) to microRNA expression data and microRNA target gene enrichment analyses of relevant GWAS data. Overall, only a minority of autoimmune disease risk loci may exert their pathophysiologic effects by altering microRNA expression based on JLIM. However, detailed functional fine-mapping revealed two independent GWAS regions harboring autoimmune disease risk SNPs with significant effects on microRNA expression. These relate to SNPs associated with Crohn's disease (CD; rs102275) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA; rs968567), which affect the expression of miR-1908-5p (prs102275=1.44e-20, prs968567=2.54e-14). In addition, an independent CD risk SNP, rs3853824, was found to alter the expression of miR-3614-5p (p=5.70e-7). To support these findings, we demonstrate that GWAS signals for RA and CD were enriched in genes predicted to be targeted by both microRNAs (all with p<0.05). In summary, our study points towards a potential pathophysiological role of miR-1908-5p and miR-3614-5p in autoimmunity.. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a large number of genetic risk loci for autoimmune diseases. However, the functional variants underlying these disease associations remain largely unknown. There is evidence that microRNA-mediated regulation may play an important role in this context. Therefore, we assessed whether autoimmune disease loci unfold their effects via altering microRNA expression in relevant immune cells. To this end, we performed comprehensive data integration of many large and publicly available datasets to combine information on autoimmune disease risk loci with RNA-Seq-based microRNA expression data. Specifically, we carried out microRNA expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analyses across 115 GWAS regions associated with 12 autoimmune diseases using next-generation sequencing data of 345 lymphoblastoid cell lines. Statistical analyses included the application and extension of a recently proposed framework (joint likelihood mapping) to microRNA expression data and microRNA target gene enrichment analyses of relevant GWAS data. Overall, only a minority of autoimmune disease risk loci may exert their pathophysiologic effects by altering microRNA expression based on JLIM. However, detailed functional fine-mapping revealed two independent GWAS regions harboring autoimmune disease risk SNPs with significant effects on microRNA expression. These relate to SNPs associated with Crohn's disease (CD; rs102275) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA; rs968567), which affect the expression of miR-1908-5p (prs102275=1.44e-20, prs968567=2.54e-14). In addition, an independent CD risk SNP, rs3853824, was found to alter the expression of miR-3614-5p (p=5.70e-7). To support these findings, we demonstrate that GWAS signals for RA and CD were enriched in genes predicted to be targeted by both microRNAs (all with p<0.05). In summary, our study points towards a potential pathophysiological role of miR-1908-5p and miR-3614-5p in autoimmunity.

Wu, H., Y. Deng, et al. (2018). "Epigenetic regulation in B-cell maturation and its dysregulation in autoimmunity." Cell Mol Immunol 15(7): 676-684. B cells have a critical role in the initiation and acceleration of autoimmune diseases, especially those mediated by autoantibodies. In the peripheral lymphoid system, mature B cells are activated by self or/and foreign antigens and signals from helper T cells for differentiating into either memory B cells or antibody-producing plasma cells. Accumulating evidence has shown that epigenetic regulations modulate somatic hypermutation and class switch DNA recombination during B-cell activation and differentiation. Any abnormalities in these complex regulatory processes may contribute to aberrant antibody production, resulting in autoimmune pathogenesis such as systemic lupus erythematosus. Newly generated knowledge from advanced modern technologies such as next-generation sequencing, single-cell sequencing and DNA methylation sequencing has enabled us to better understand B-cell biology and its role in autoimmune development. Thus this review aims to summarize current research progress in epigenetic modifications contributing to B-cell activation and differentiation, especially under autoimmune conditions such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes.. B cells have a critical role in the initiation and acceleration of autoimmune diseases, especially those mediated by autoantibodies. In the peripheral lymphoid system, mature B cells are activated by self or/and foreign antigens and signals from helper T cells for differentiating into either memory B cells or antibody-producing plasma cells. Accumulating evidence has shown that epigenetic regulations modulate somatic hypermutation and class switch DNA recombination during B-cell activation and differentiation. Any abnormalities in these complex regulatory processes may contribute to aberrant antibody production, resulting in autoimmune pathogenesis such as systemic lupus erythematosus. Newly generated knowledge from advanced modern technologies such as next-generation sequencing, single-cell sequencing and DNA methylation sequencing has enabled us to better understand B-cell biology and its role in autoimmune development. Thus this review aims to summarize current research progress in epigenetic modifications contributing to B-cell activation and differentiation, especially under autoimmune conditions such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes.

Wu, W., A. He, et al. (2017). "Comparison of microRNA expression profiles of Kashin-Beck disease, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis." Sci Rep 7(1): 540. Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is a chronic osteochondropathy with unclear pathogeny. In this study, we compared the microRNA expression profiles of 16 KBD patients, 16 osteoarthritis (OA) patients and 16 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and 16 healthy controls in their blood specimens. miRNAs expression profiling was performed using Exiqon miRCURY LNATM miRNAs Array. miRNAs target genes were predicted using miRror suite. Another independent mRNA expression profile dataset of 20 KBD patients and 15 healthy controls were integrated with the miRNA expression profiles of KBD. We identified 140 differently expressed miRNAs in KBD vs. CONTROLS: GO enrichment analysis found that hypoxia, Wnt receptor signaling pathway and vitamin B6 biosynthesis related GO terms were significantly overrepresented in the target genes of differently expressed miRNAs in KBD vs. CONTROL: 18 differently expressed common miRNAs were identified in KBD vs. Control, KBD vs. OA and KBD vs. RA. Integrating the lists of differently expressed miRNA target genes and mRNA differently expressed genes detected 6 common genes for KBD. Our results demonstrated the altered miRNAs expression profiles of KBD comparing to healthy controls, OA and RA, which provide novel clues for clarifying the mechanism of KBD.. Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is a chronic osteochondropathy with unclear pathogeny. In this study, we compared the microRNA expression profiles of 16 KBD patients, 16 osteoarthritis (OA) patients and 16 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and 16 healthy controls in their blood specimens. miRNAs expression profiling was performed using Exiqon miRCURY LNATM miRNAs Array. miRNAs target genes were predicted using miRror suite. Another independent mRNA expression profile dataset of 20 KBD patients and 15 healthy controls were integrated with the miRNA expression profiles of KBD. We identified 140 differently expressed miRNAs in KBD vs. CONTROLS: GO enrichment analysis found that hypoxia, Wnt receptor signaling pathway and vitamin B6 biosynthesis related GO terms were significantly overrepresented in the target genes of differently expressed miRNAs in KBD vs. CONTROL: 18 differently expressed common miRNAs were identified in KBD vs. Control, KBD vs. OA and KBD vs. RA. Integrating the lists of differently expressed miRNA target genes and mRNA differently expressed genes detected 6 common genes for KBD. Our results demonstrated the altered miRNAs expression profiles of KBD comparing to healthy controls, OA and RA, which provide novel clues for clarifying the mechanism of KBD.

Wu, Y. H., W. Liu, et al. (2016). "Upregulated Expression of microRNA-16 Correlates with Th17/Treg Cell Imbalance in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis." DNA Cell Biol 35(12): 853-860. To explore the correlation between miR-16 expression in T cells of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and Th17/Treg imbalance in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Forty RA patients were recruited as the case group and further grouped as active RA and inactive RA groups; 21 healthy individuals were selected as the control group. Th17 and Treg were measured by flow cytometry, and their related cytokines were measured by FlowCytomix. RORgammat, FoxP3 mRNA, and miR-16 expression in T cells was determined by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Western blotting was performed to measure RORgammat and FoxP3 protein expression. RA patients showed upregulated Th17 and RORgammat mRNA and protein expression compared with the controls (all p < 0.05); active RA patients showed lower Treg and FoxP3 mRNA and protein expression compared with inactive RA patients and controls (all p < 0.05). Secretion levels of Th17-related cytokines were higher in active RA patients than in inactive RA patients and controls (all p < 0.05); whereas those of Treg-related cytokines were lower in active RA patients than in controls (all p < 0.05). Active RA patients showed increased miR-16 expression in Th17 cells and decreased miR-16 expression in Treg cells of PBMCs (both p < 0.05). Pearson's test showed that in the PBMCs of the RA patients, miR-16 expression in the Th17 cells was positively related with RORgammat mRNA expression, and miR-16 expression in the Treg cells was positively related with FoxP3 mRNA expression (both p < 0.05). The expression of miR-16 in Th17 and Treg cells of PBMCs in RA patients was closely associated with the expression of RORgammat and FoxP3. MiR-16 may be involved in Th17/Treg imbalance of RA patients by affecting the expression of RORgammat and FoxP3.. To explore the correlation between miR-16 expression in T cells of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and Th17/Treg imbalance in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Forty RA patients were recruited as the case group and further grouped as active RA and inactive RA groups; 21 healthy individuals were selected as the control group. Th17 and Treg were measured by flow cytometry, and their related cytokines were measured by FlowCytomix. RORgammat, FoxP3 mRNA, and miR-16 expression in T cells was determined by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Western blotting was performed to measure RORgammat and FoxP3 protein expression. RA patients showed upregulated Th17 and RORgammat mRNA and protein expression compared with the controls (all p < 0.05); active RA patients showed lower Treg and FoxP3 mRNA and protein expression compared with inactive RA patients and controls (all p < 0.05). Secretion levels of Th17-related cytokines were higher in active RA patients than in inactive RA patients and controls (all p < 0.05); whereas those of Treg-related cytokines were lower in active RA patients than in controls (all p < 0.05). Active RA patients showed increased miR-16 expression in Th17 cells and decreased miR-16 expression in Treg cells of PBMCs (both p < 0.05). Pearson's test showed that in the PBMCs of the RA patients, miR-16 expression in the Th17 cells was positively related with RORgammat mRNA expression, and miR-16 expression in the Treg cells was positively related with FoxP3 mRNA expression (both p < 0.05). The expression of miR-16 in Th17 and Treg cells of PBMCs in RA patients was closely associated with the expression of RORgammat and FoxP3. MiR-16 may be involved in Th17/Treg imbalance of RA patients by affecting the expression of RORgammat and FoxP3.

Xiao, M., Y. Ma, et al. (2015). "[Single nucleotide polymorphism of miR-149 and susceptibility of rheumatoid arthritis]." Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban 40(5): 495-498. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between microRNA (miR)-149 polymorphism and susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA ), as well as the clinical characteristics in patients with RA . METHODS: A total of 200 RA patients and 120 healthy controls were recruited from Department of Rheumatology and Immunology of Nanjing First Hospital. After obtaining the informed consent, we collected 2 mL of anti-coagulated venous blood samples from all studied subjects to isolate the whole blood genomic DNA, and the clinical data were collected as well. Single nucleotide polymorphisms of miR-149 rs22928323 were detected by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Correlation between single nucleotide polymorphisms and clinical features were compared. RESULTS: The frequencies of TT, TC and CC for rs22928323 of miR-149 were 25.3%, 51.1% and 23.6% or 18.3%, 20.0% and 61.7% in the patients or the healthy controls, respectively. The onset risk of allele C in RA patients was increased compared with allele T [OR=1.38, 95% CI (1.01-1.75), P=0.023]. There were no significant difference in rheumatoid factor, blood urine nitrogen, antikeratin antibody, and other clinical characteristics among the 3 genotypes in RA patients (P>0.05). CONCLUSION: SNP rs22928323 in miR-149 is correlated with RA in the east of Chinese Han population, whereas there is no correlation between miR-149 polymorphism and clinical characteristics in patients with RA.. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between microRNA (miR)-149 polymorphism and susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA ), as well as the clinical characteristics in patients with RA . METHODS: A total of 200 RA patients and 120 healthy controls were recruited from Department of Rheumatology and Immunology of Nanjing First Hospital. After obtaining the informed consent, we collected 2 mL of anti-coagulated venous blood samples from all studied subjects to isolate the whole blood genomic DNA, and the clinical data were collected as well. Single nucleotide polymorphisms of miR-149 rs22928323 were detected by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Correlation between single nucleotide polymorphisms and clinical features were compared. RESULTS: The frequencies of TT, TC and CC for rs22928323 of miR-149 were 25.3%, 51.1% and 23.6% or 18.3%, 20.0% and 61.7% in the patients or the healthy controls, respectively. The onset risk of allele C in RA patients was increased compared with allele T [OR=1.38, 95% CI (1.01-1.75), P=0.023]. There were no significant difference in rheumatoid factor, blood urine nitrogen, antikeratin antibody, and other clinical characteristics among the 3 genotypes in RA patients (P>0.05). CONCLUSION: SNP rs22928323 in miR-149 is correlated with RA in the east of Chinese Han population, whereas there is no correlation between miR-149 polymorphism and clinical characteristics in patients with RA.

Xie, Q., S. C. Wang, et al. (2013). "MicroRNA-146a, a good biomarker and potential therapeutic target for rheumatoid arthritis." Genet Test Mol Biomarkers 17(2): 91-92. . 
Xie, Q., M. Wei, et al. (2018). "MicroRNA33 regulates the NLRP3 inflammasome signaling pathway in macrophages." Mol Med Rep 17(2): 3318-3327. The nucleotide binding domain and leucine-rich repeat pyrin 3 domain (NLRP3) inflammasome/interleukin (IL)-1beta axis serves an essential role in regulating the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The dysregulation of cellular metabolism, such as mitochondrial dysfunction, results in the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. microRNA (miR)33 has previously been identified to be a regulator of lipid metabolism and mitochondrial function. However, whether miR33 regulates the NLRP3 inflammasome/IL1beta axis remains unknown. In the present study, it was observed that an miR33 mimic or antimiR33 markedly stimulated or inhibited, respectively, IL1beta protein expression levels in mouse peritoneal macrophages. Mechanistically, miR33 upregulated the expression of NLRP3 mRNA and protein as well as caspase1 activity in primary macrophages. In addition, the results demonstrated that miR33 impaired mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates, resulting in the accumulation of cellular reactive oxygen species, which stimulated NLRP3 expression, caspase1 activity and IL1beta secretion. The results of the present study demonstrated that miR33 levels and NLRP3 inflammasome activity were increased in peripheral blood monocytes from patients with RA patients compared with healthy donors. In conclusion, the present study identified miR33 to be a positive regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome in macrophages. The miR33/NLRP3 inflammasome pathway may therefore be involved in RA development.. The nucleotide binding domain and leucine-rich repeat pyrin 3 domain (NLRP3) inflammasome/interleukin (IL)-1beta axis serves an essential role in regulating the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The dysregulation of cellular metabolism, such as mitochondrial dysfunction, results in the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. microRNA (miR)33 has previously been identified to be a regulator of lipid metabolism and mitochondrial function. However, whether miR33 regulates the NLRP3 inflammasome/IL1beta axis remains unknown. In the present study, it was observed that an miR33 mimic or antimiR33 markedly stimulated or inhibited, respectively, IL1beta protein expression levels in mouse peritoneal macrophages. Mechanistically, miR33 upregulated the expression of NLRP3 mRNA and protein as well as caspase1 activity in primary macrophages. In addition, the results demonstrated that miR33 impaired mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates, resulting in the accumulation of cellular reactive oxygen species, which stimulated NLRP3 expression, caspase1 activity and IL1beta secretion. The results of the present study demonstrated that miR33 levels and NLRP3 inflammasome activity were increased in peripheral blood monocytes from patients with RA patients compared with healthy donors. In conclusion, the present study identified miR33 to be a positive regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome in macrophages. The miR33/NLRP3 inflammasome pathway may therefore be involved in RA development.

Xiong, G., Z. Huang, et al. (2016). "Inhibition of microRNA-21 decreases the invasiveness of fibroblast-like synoviocytes in rheumatoid arthritis via TGFbeta/Smads signaling pathway." Iran J Basic Med Sci 19(7): 787-793. OBJECTIVES: MicroRNA-21 (miR21) is aberrantly elevated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, the significance of this microRNA in RA pathogenesis and treatment, however, has not been investigated. In this study, by using RA-derived fibroblast-like synoviocyte (FLS) cells as a model, we investigated the effect and corresponding mechanism of miR21 inhibition on FLSs invasion. MATERIALS AND METHODS: miR21 expression in synovial tissue and FLSs in RA patients and non-RA controls were determined by stem-loop RT-PCR. The effect of miR21 on FLSs viability and invasiveness were evaluated using miR21 inhibition. Cell viability was evaluated by MTT assay and the expression of genes at mRNA and protein levels was determined by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. RESULTS: Our results showed that miR21 expression was highly increased in synovial tissue and FLSs in RA patients. Also, we reported that miR21 inhibitor treatment could significantly suppress the invasiveness of FLSs without affecting cell viability. The decreased FLSs invasion by miR21 inhibition was associated with down-regulated expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1, MMP3, and MMP13. Further analysis revealed that miR21 inhibition could suppress the expression of TGFbeta1 and Smad4, but promote that of Smad7. Moreover, suppression of FLS invasion and MMPs expression by miR21 treatment could be counteracted by additional TGFbeta1 treatment. CONCLUSION: Our results indicated that miR21 inhibition can down-regulate the expression of MMP1, MMP3, and MMP13 and consequently suppress the invasiveness of FLS, which is achieved through TGFbeta1/Smad4/7 signaling pathway. The findings of this study could offer a novel approach for RA treatment.. OBJECTIVES: MicroRNA-21 (miR21) is aberrantly elevated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, the significance of this microRNA in RA pathogenesis and treatment, however, has not been investigated. In this study, by using RA-derived fibroblast-like synoviocyte (FLS) cells as a model, we investigated the effect and corresponding mechanism of miR21 inhibition on FLSs invasion. MATERIALS AND METHODS: miR21 expression in synovial tissue and FLSs in RA patients and non-RA controls were determined by stem-loop RT-PCR. The effect of miR21 on FLSs viability and invasiveness were evaluated using miR21 inhibition. Cell viability was evaluated by MTT assay and the expression of genes at mRNA and protein levels was determined by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. RESULTS: Our results showed that miR21 expression was highly increased in synovial tissue and FLSs in RA patients. Also, we reported that miR21 inhibitor treatment could significantly suppress the invasiveness of FLSs without affecting cell viability. The decreased FLSs invasion by miR21 inhibition was associated with down-regulated expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1, MMP3, and MMP13. Further analysis revealed that miR21 inhibition could suppress the expression of TGFbeta1 and Smad4, but promote that of Smad7. Moreover, suppression of FLS invasion and MMPs expression by miR21 treatment could be counteracted by additional TGFbeta1 treatment. CONCLUSION: Our results indicated that miR21 inhibition can down-regulate the expression of MMP1, MMP3, and MMP13 and consequently suppress the invasiveness of FLS, which is achieved through TGFbeta1/Smad4/7 signaling pathway. The findings of this study could offer a novel approach for RA treatment.

Xu, H. Y., Z. Y. Wang, et al. (2015). "Association between ankylosing spondylitis and the miR-146a and miR-499 polymorphisms." PLoS One 10(4): e0122055. miRNAs are small, non-coding RNAs that regulate the expression of multiple target genes at the post-transcriptional level. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNA sequences may alter miRNA expression and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple forms of arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis. The present study explored the association between ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), miR-146a rs2910164G>C and miR-499 rs3746444T>C, in a Han Chinese population. A case-control study consisting of 102 subjects with AS and 105 healthy controls was designed. The two miRNA SNPs were identified by direct sequencing. Subsequently, their gene and genotype frequencies were compared with healthy controls. A significant difference was observed in the miR-146a rs2910164G>C SNP. The frequency of the G allele was markedly higher in the AS patients than in the healthy controls (P = 0.005, Pc = 0.01, OR = 1.787), and the frequency of the GG genotype was higher in AS patients than in controls (P = 0.014, Pc = 0.042, OR = 2.516). However, no significant association was found between the miR-499 rs3746444T>C variant and susceptibility to AS. This is the first study to address the association between the miR-146a rs2910164G>C and miR-499 rs3746444T>C polymorphisms and AS, and it suggests a potential pathogenic factor for AS. Further studies are needed to validate our findings in a larger series, as well as in other ethnic backgrounds.. miRNAs are small, non-coding RNAs that regulate the expression of multiple target genes at the post-transcriptional level. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNA sequences may alter miRNA expression and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple forms of arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis. The present study explored the association between ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), miR-146a rs2910164G>C and miR-499 rs3746444T>C, in a Han Chinese population. A case-control study consisting of 102 subjects with AS and 105 healthy controls was designed. The two miRNA SNPs were identified by direct sequencing. Subsequently, their gene and genotype frequencies were compared with healthy controls. A significant difference was observed in the miR-146a rs2910164G>C SNP. The frequency of the G allele was markedly higher in the AS patients than in the healthy controls (P = 0.005, Pc = 0.01, OR = 1.787), and the frequency of the GG genotype was higher in AS patients than in controls (P = 0.014, Pc = 0.042, OR = 2.516). However, no significant association was found between the miR-499 rs3746444T>C variant and susceptibility to AS. This is the first study to address the association between the miR-146a rs2910164G>C and miR-499 rs3746444T>C polymorphisms and AS, and it suggests a potential pathogenic factor for AS. Further studies are needed to validate our findings in a larger series, as well as in other ethnic backgrounds.

Xu, K., P. Xu, et al. (2013). "Reduced apoptosis correlates with enhanced autophagy in synovial tissues of rheumatoid arthritis." Inflamm Res 62(2): 229-237. OBJECTIVE: Defective apoptosis contributes to the massive synovial hyperplasia in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but the mechanism is largely unknown. To investigate the reasons for the reduced apoptosis in RA synovium, we analyzed autophagy and its relationship to apoptosis in synovial tissues from RA and osteoarthritis (OA) patients. METHODS: Synovial tissues were obtained from seven RA and 12 OA patients undergoing knee replacement surgery. Apoptosis was detected by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay and staining for p85 fragment of PolyADP-ribose polymerase (PARP). Autophagy was determined by immunoblotting for the autophagic markers Beclin-1 and LC3. MicroRNA-30a (miR-30a), which targets Beclin-1, was measured by real-time RT-PCR. The interplay between autophagy and apoptosis was determined via Spearman's correlation analysis. RESULTS: In comparison with OA, the synovial tissues from RA displayed decreased TUNEL-positive nuclei (P < 0.01). In contrast, Beclin-1 and LC3 were overexpressed in the synovial lining layers of RA, which was correlated with decreased levels of miR-30a. Moreover, there was a significant reverse relationship between apoptosis and autophagy in RA synovial tissues (P < 0.01 and r = -0.8937). CONCLUSION: The impaired apoptosis in RA synovium might result from increased autophagy, which in turn could be due to the deregulation of miRNA-30a.. OBJECTIVE: Defective apoptosis contributes to the massive synovial hyperplasia in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but the mechanism is largely unknown. To investigate the reasons for the reduced apoptosis in RA synovium, we analyzed autophagy and its relationship to apoptosis in synovial tissues from RA and osteoarthritis (OA) patients. METHODS: Synovial tissues were obtained from seven RA and 12 OA patients undergoing knee replacement surgery. Apoptosis was detected by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay and staining for p85 fragment of PolyADP-ribose polymerase (PARP). Autophagy was determined by immunoblotting for the autophagic markers Beclin-1 and LC3. MicroRNA-30a (miR-30a), which targets Beclin-1, was measured by real-time RT-PCR. The interplay between autophagy and apoptosis was determined via Spearman's correlation analysis. RESULTS: In comparison with OA, the synovial tissues from RA displayed decreased TUNEL-positive nuclei (P < 0.01). In contrast, Beclin-1 and LC3 were overexpressed in the synovial lining layers of RA, which was correlated with decreased levels of miR-30a. Moreover, there was a significant reverse relationship between apoptosis and autophagy in RA synovial tissues (P < 0.01 and r = -0.8937). CONCLUSION: The impaired apoptosis in RA synovium might result from increased autophagy, which in turn could be due to the deregulation of miRNA-30a.

Xu, T., C. Huang, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA-323-3p: a new biomarker and potential therapeutic target for rheumatoid arthritis." Rheumatol Int 34(5): 721-722. Increased expression of microRNA-323-3p (miR-323-3p) has been demonstrated in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblast. The gene encoding miR-323-3p, which is a biomarker in immune and inflammatory responses, occurs in an miRNA cluster in chromosomal region 14q32.31.. Increased expression of microRNA-323-3p (miR-323-3p) has been demonstrated in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblast. The gene encoding miR-323-3p, which is a biomarker in immune and inflammatory responses, occurs in an miRNA cluster in chromosomal region 14q32.31.

Xu, T., L. Li, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA-323-3p with clinical potential in rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and ectopic pregnancy." Expert Opin Ther Targets 18(2): 153-158. INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of noncoding RNAs, approximately 20 - 22 nucleotides in length, that repress target gene expression through mRNA degradation and translation inhibition. The gene encoding miR-323-3p, which is a biomarker in immune and inflammatory responses, exists in a miRNA cluster in chromosomal region 14q32.31. It has been shown that miR-323-3p associates with the pathogenesis of several diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and ectopic pregnancy. AREAS COVERED: This review provides a current view on the association of miR-323-3p with several human diseases and is focused on the recent studies of miR-323-3p regulation, discussing its potential as an epigenetic biomarker and therapeutic target for these diseases. In particular, the mechanisms of miR-323-3p in these diseases and how miR-323-3p is regulated are also discussed. EXPERT OPINION: Although the exact role of miR-323-3p in these diseases has not been fully elucidated, targeting miR-323-3p may serve as a promising therapy strategy.. INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of noncoding RNAs, approximately 20 - 22 nucleotides in length, that repress target gene expression through mRNA degradation and translation inhibition. The gene encoding miR-323-3p, which is a biomarker in immune and inflammatory responses, exists in a miRNA cluster in chromosomal region 14q32.31. It has been shown that miR-323-3p associates with the pathogenesis of several diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and ectopic pregnancy. AREAS COVERED: This review provides a current view on the association of miR-323-3p with several human diseases and is focused on the recent studies of miR-323-3p regulation, discussing its potential as an epigenetic biomarker and therapeutic target for these diseases. In particular, the mechanisms of miR-323-3p in these diseases and how miR-323-3p is regulated are also discussed. EXPERT OPINION: Although the exact role of miR-323-3p in these diseases has not been fully elucidated, targeting miR-323-3p may serve as a promising therapy strategy.

Xu, W. D., M. M. Lu, et al. (2012). "Association of MicroRNA-146a with autoimmune diseases." Inflammation 35(4): 1525-1529. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of approximately 20-22-nucleotide-long non-coding RNAs that repress target gene expression through mRNA degradation and translation inhibition. MiRNA (miR)-146a, located in the second exon of the LOC285628 gene on human chromosome 5, is a negative regulator in immune and inflammatory responses. Studies have indicated that miR-146a is associated with the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and Sjogren's syndrome. In this review, emphasis will be laid on the recent progress in the functional roles of miR-146a in these autoimmune diseases.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of approximately 20-22-nucleotide-long non-coding RNAs that repress target gene expression through mRNA degradation and translation inhibition. MiRNA (miR)-146a, located in the second exon of the LOC285628 gene on human chromosome 5, is a negative regulator in immune and inflammatory responses. Studies have indicated that miR-146a is associated with the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and Sjogren's syndrome. In this review, emphasis will be laid on the recent progress in the functional roles of miR-146a in these autoimmune diseases.

Xu, X., H. Chen, et al. (2017). "MiR-650 inhibits proliferation, migration and invasion of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts by targeting AKT2." Biomed Pharmacother 88: 535-541. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: This study was aimed to investigate the effects of miR-650 on the proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: Synovial tissue samples were collected from 16 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and 13 patients with joint trauma undergoing joint replacement surgery. The RASFs were isolated and cultured. MiR-650 and AKT2 expressions in both synovial tissues and cells were detected using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), western blot and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Dual luciferase reporter gene assay was employed to evaluate the effect of miR-650 on the luciferase activity of AKT2. Then RASFs were transfected with miR-650 mimics, miR-650 inhibitors and pLenti6/V5-AKT2 respectively. And changes in cellular proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis were detected through MTT assay, wound healing assay, Transwell invasion assay and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. RESULTS: MiR-650 was significantly down-regulated in RASFs than normal cells, whereas AKT2 was up-regulated in RASFs. Dual luciferase reporter gene assay showed that miR-650 could specifically bind to the 3'UTR of AKT2 and significantly repress the luciferase activity. MiR-650 significantly decreased the expression of AKT2. Down-regulation of miR-650 or up-regulation of AKT2 could increase proliferation, migration, invasion of RASFs, and decrease RASFs apoptosis. The conversed results were observed, when miR-650 was up-regulated in RASFs. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-650 could inhibit the proliferation, migration and invasion of RASFs through targeted regulation of AKT2 expression.. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: This study was aimed to investigate the effects of miR-650 on the proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis of rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). METHODS: Synovial tissue samples were collected from 16 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and 13 patients with joint trauma undergoing joint replacement surgery. The RASFs were isolated and cultured. MiR-650 and AKT2 expressions in both synovial tissues and cells were detected using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), western blot and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Dual luciferase reporter gene assay was employed to evaluate the effect of miR-650 on the luciferase activity of AKT2. Then RASFs were transfected with miR-650 mimics, miR-650 inhibitors and pLenti6/V5-AKT2 respectively. And changes in cellular proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis were detected through MTT assay, wound healing assay, Transwell invasion assay and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. RESULTS: MiR-650 was significantly down-regulated in RASFs than normal cells, whereas AKT2 was up-regulated in RASFs. Dual luciferase reporter gene assay showed that miR-650 could specifically bind to the 3'UTR of AKT2 and significantly repress the luciferase activity. MiR-650 significantly decreased the expression of AKT2. Down-regulation of miR-650 or up-regulation of AKT2 could increase proliferation, migration, invasion of RASFs, and decrease RASFs apoptosis. The conversed results were observed, when miR-650 was up-regulated in RASFs. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-650 could inhibit the proliferation, migration and invasion of RASFs through targeted regulation of AKT2 expression.

Xu, Y., Y. Huang, et al. (2015). "Analysis of differences in the molecular mechanism of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis based on integration of gene expression profiles." Immunol Lett 168(2): 246-253. BACKGROUND: We aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) and analyze the mechanism differences between them. METHODS: The gene expression profile of GSE1919, GSE12021, GSE21959 and GSE48780 were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus. Total 165 samples of synovial fibroblasts (118 RA samples, 15 OA samples and 32 normal controls) were used. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in RA samples but no differences in OA samples (RA.DEGs) and genes in OA samples but no differences in RA samples (OA.DEGs) were screened using limma package. Functional enrichment analysis was performed using DAVID. Moreover, transcriptional regulatory network (TRN) and microRNA regulatory network were constructed. RESULTS: Total 211 RA.DEGs (96 up- and 115 down-regulate) and 497 OA.DEGs (224 up- and 273 down-regulated) were identified. TRN analysis showed that C-ETS-1 and P53 were important transcription factors. C-ETS-1 could interact with matrix metallopeptidase 1 (MMP1) and CD53 while P53 could interact with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and dual specificity phosphatase 1 (DUSP1). Besides, v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (MYC) and interleukin 1, beta (IL1B) could be regulated by the most microRNAs in microRNA regulatory network. Our study indicates that ETS-1 may contribute to RA progression by up-regulation of MMP1 and result in OA progression via up-regulating CD53. CONCLUSIONS: P53 may be involved in the progression of RA and OA via targeting downstream EGFR and DUSP1 respectively. Besides, MYC and IL1B may play an important role in OA progression via the regulation of microRNAs.. BACKGROUND: We aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) and analyze the mechanism differences between them. METHODS: The gene expression profile of GSE1919, GSE12021, GSE21959 and GSE48780 were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus. Total 165 samples of synovial fibroblasts (118 RA samples, 15 OA samples and 32 normal controls) were used. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in RA samples but no differences in OA samples (RA.DEGs) and genes in OA samples but no differences in RA samples (OA.DEGs) were screened using limma package. Functional enrichment analysis was performed using DAVID. Moreover, transcriptional regulatory network (TRN) and microRNA regulatory network were constructed. RESULTS: Total 211 RA.DEGs (96 up- and 115 down-regulate) and 497 OA.DEGs (224 up- and 273 down-regulated) were identified. TRN analysis showed that C-ETS-1 and P53 were important transcription factors. C-ETS-1 could interact with matrix metallopeptidase 1 (MMP1) and CD53 while P53 could interact with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and dual specificity phosphatase 1 (DUSP1). Besides, v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (MYC) and interleukin 1, beta (IL1B) could be regulated by the most microRNAs in microRNA regulatory network. Our study indicates that ETS-1 may contribute to RA progression by up-regulation of MMP1 and result in OA progression via up-regulating CD53. CONCLUSIONS: P53 may be involved in the progression of RA and OA via targeting downstream EGFR and DUSP1 respectively. Besides, MYC and IL1B may play an important role in OA progression via the regulation of microRNAs.

Yan, X., Y. Cen, et al. (2016). "Mesenchymal stem cells alleviate experimental rheumatoid arthritis through microRNA-regulated IkappaB expression." Sci Rep 6: 28915. Previous studies have demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation reduces the severity of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice, which is a model for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in humans. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain ill-defined. Here, we showed that MSC transplantation reduced the activities of NF-kappaB signaling and decreased microRNA-548e (miR-548e) levels in the joint tissue in CIA-mice, seemingly through activation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that miR-548e inhibited protein translation of the NF-kappaB inhibitor, IkappaB, through binding to the 3'-UTR of the IkappaB mRNA. MSCs co-transplanted with adeno-associated virus (AAV) carrying miR-548e abolished the therapeutic effects of MSCs on CIA. On the other hand, transplantation of AAV carrying antisense of miR-548e (as-miR-548e) partially mimicked the effects of MSC transplantation on CIA. Together, these data suggest that MSC transplantation may alleviate experimental RA partially through suppressing miR-548e-mediated IkappaB inhibition.. Previous studies have demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation reduces the severity of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice, which is a model for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in humans. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain ill-defined. Here, we showed that MSC transplantation reduced the activities of NF-kappaB signaling and decreased microRNA-548e (miR-548e) levels in the joint tissue in CIA-mice, seemingly through activation of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that miR-548e inhibited protein translation of the NF-kappaB inhibitor, IkappaB, through binding to the 3'-UTR of the IkappaB mRNA. MSCs co-transplanted with adeno-associated virus (AAV) carrying miR-548e abolished the therapeutic effects of MSCs on CIA. On the other hand, transplantation of AAV carrying antisense of miR-548e (as-miR-548e) partially mimicked the effects of MSC transplantation on CIA. Together, these data suggest that MSC transplantation may alleviate experimental RA partially through suppressing miR-548e-mediated IkappaB inhibition.

Yang, B., J. Chen, et al. (2012). "Association of polymorphisms in pre-miRNA with inflammatory biomarkers in rheumatoid arthritis in the Chinese Han population." Hum Immunol 73(1): 101-106. The aim of this study was to detect the association between 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs2910164 G>C and rs3746444 T>C, in pre-miRNA (hsa-mir-146a and hsa-mir-499) and the chronic inflammation in the Chinese Han population with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Two hundred sixty-two Han Chinese patients with RA were recruited in this study. The SNPs were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism. C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and the plasma concentrations of interleukin (IL)-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) were measured. There was a significant difference in the levels of CRP and ESR among different genotypes in rs3746444 (p = 0.031 and p = 0.047, respectively). The heterozygote CT had significantly higher levels of CRP and ESR compared with homozygotes CC and TT. No significant association was observed between the SNP rs2910164 and the levels of CRP, ESR, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and TGF-beta1 (all p > 0.05). The results of this study provided the first evidence that the SNP rs3746444 in pre-miR-499 could affect the inflammatory reaction in patients with RA. The findings were significant and might contribute to the clinical assessment of inflammatory activity, which in turn may influence therapeutic decision making.. The aim of this study was to detect the association between 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs2910164 G>C and rs3746444 T>C, in pre-miRNA (hsa-mir-146a and hsa-mir-499) and the chronic inflammation in the Chinese Han population with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Two hundred sixty-two Han Chinese patients with RA were recruited in this study. The SNPs were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism. C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and the plasma concentrations of interleukin (IL)-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) were measured. There was a significant difference in the levels of CRP and ESR among different genotypes in rs3746444 (p = 0.031 and p = 0.047, respectively). The heterozygote CT had significantly higher levels of CRP and ESR compared with homozygotes CC and TT. No significant association was observed between the SNP rs2910164 and the levels of CRP, ESR, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and TGF-beta1 (all p > 0.05). The results of this study provided the first evidence that the SNP rs3746444 in pre-miR-499 could affect the inflammatory reaction in patients with RA. The findings were significant and might contribute to the clinical assessment of inflammatory activity, which in turn may influence therapeutic decision making.

Yang, G., D. Wu, et al. (2015). "Correlation between miR-126 expression and DNA hypomethylation of CD4+ T cells in rheumatoid arthritis patients." Int J Clin Exp Pathol 8(8): 8929-8936. It has been known that the occurrence of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) was closely correlated with DNA hypomethylation in CD4+ T cells, in which DNA methyltransferase plays a certain role. This study therefore investigated the effect of miR-126 on CD4+ T cell subgroup in RA patients and the alternation of DNA hypomethylation, in an attempt to provide new sights into the pathogenesis and treatment of RA. CD4+ T cells separated from RA patients were transfected with miRNA (miR)-126 expression vector or miR-126 inhibitor expression vector. The expression levels of CD11a, CD70 and DNMT1 mRNA were examined by real-time PCR. Protein levels of CD11a and CD70 were tested by flow cytometry while DNMT1 protein level was quantified by Western blotting. DNA was modified by sodium bisulfite and was sequenced for the methylation status of promoters of CD11a and CD70 genes. Both mRNA and protein expressions of CD11a and CD70 genes in CD4+ T cells were elevated by miR-126 transfection, along with decreased DNMT1 protein level but not mRNA level. The methylation degree of promoters of both CD11a and CD70 genes were significantly depressed after miR-126 transfection. The transfection by miR-126 inhibitor effectively reversed such effects. In RA patients, elevated miR-126 may promote the expression of CD11a and CD70 via the induction of hypomethylation of gene promoters by depressing DNMTI1 protein levels.. It has been known that the occurrence of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) was closely correlated with DNA hypomethylation in CD4+ T cells, in which DNA methyltransferase plays a certain role. This study therefore investigated the effect of miR-126 on CD4+ T cell subgroup in RA patients and the alternation of DNA hypomethylation, in an attempt to provide new sights into the pathogenesis and treatment of RA. CD4+ T cells separated from RA patients were transfected with miRNA (miR)-126 expression vector or miR-126 inhibitor expression vector. The expression levels of CD11a, CD70 and DNMT1 mRNA were examined by real-time PCR. Protein levels of CD11a and CD70 were tested by flow cytometry while DNMT1 protein level was quantified by Western blotting. DNA was modified by sodium bisulfite and was sequenced for the methylation status of promoters of CD11a and CD70 genes. Both mRNA and protein expressions of CD11a and CD70 genes in CD4+ T cells were elevated by miR-126 transfection, along with decreased DNMT1 protein level but not mRNA level. The methylation degree of promoters of both CD11a and CD70 genes were significantly depressed after miR-126 transfection. The transfection by miR-126 inhibitor effectively reversed such effects. In RA patients, elevated miR-126 may promote the expression of CD11a and CD70 via the induction of hypomethylation of gene promoters by depressing DNMTI1 protein levels.

Yang, S., S. Jiang, et al. (2016). "Interleukin 34 Upregulation Contributes to the Increment of MicroRNA 21 Expression through STAT3 Activation Associated with Disease Activity in Rheumatoid Arthritis." J Rheumatol 43(7): 1312-1319. OBJECTIVE: Interleukin 34 (IL-34) and microRNA 21 (miR-21) were found to be involved in the pathological process of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but the details were unclear. In this study, we aimed to clarify the relationship between IL-34 and miR-21 in RA. METHODS: IL-34 concentrations in serum and synovial fluid (SF) of patients with RA were measured by ELISA. Fibroblast-like synovial cells (FLS) were cultured for evaluation of STAT3 activation, miR-21, and Bax/Bcl-2 expression by Western blot and real-time PCR. Correlations were analyzed between clinical features and detectable variables including SF IL-34 levels and miR-21 expression. RESULTS: SF IL-34 levels were significantly higher in patients with RA who had a high 28-joint Disease Activity Score (DAS28 >/= 3.2) than in those with a lower DAS28 (DAS28 < 3.2). DAS28 scores and miR-21 expression in FLS had a significant positive correlation with the SF IL-34 levels. In addition, IL-34 stimulation strengthened the activation of p-STAT3, resulting in the increment of miR-21 expression. Inhibiting of miR-21 expression contributed to decreased Bcl-2/Bax ratio, suggesting that miR-21 was involved in the resistance to apoptosis. With the blocking of the colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF1R), decreased protein expressions including CSF1R, p-STAT3/STAT3, and Bcl-2/Bax were shown, suggesting that CSF1R participated in the biological functions of IL-34 in RA. CONCLUSION: The IL-34/STAT3/miR-21 pathway is crucial for the survival of synovial fibroblasts in RA, which might be candidate therapeutic targets for RA treatment.. OBJECTIVE: Interleukin 34 (IL-34) and microRNA 21 (miR-21) were found to be involved in the pathological process of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but the details were unclear. In this study, we aimed to clarify the relationship between IL-34 and miR-21 in RA. METHODS: IL-34 concentrations in serum and synovial fluid (SF) of patients with RA were measured by ELISA. Fibroblast-like synovial cells (FLS) were cultured for evaluation of STAT3 activation, miR-21, and Bax/Bcl-2 expression by Western blot and real-time PCR. Correlations were analyzed between clinical features and detectable variables including SF IL-34 levels and miR-21 expression. RESULTS: SF IL-34 levels were significantly higher in patients with RA who had a high 28-joint Disease Activity Score (DAS28 >/= 3.2) than in those with a lower DAS28 (DAS28 < 3.2). DAS28 scores and miR-21 expression in FLS had a significant positive correlation with the SF IL-34 levels. In addition, IL-34 stimulation strengthened the activation of p-STAT3, resulting in the increment of miR-21 expression. Inhibiting of miR-21 expression contributed to decreased Bcl-2/Bax ratio, suggesting that miR-21 was involved in the resistance to apoptosis. With the blocking of the colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF1R), decreased protein expressions including CSF1R, p-STAT3/STAT3, and Bcl-2/Bax were shown, suggesting that CSF1R participated in the biological functions of IL-34 in RA. CONCLUSION: The IL-34/STAT3/miR-21 pathway is crucial for the survival of synovial fibroblasts in RA, which might be candidate therapeutic targets for RA treatment.

Yang, S. and Y. Yang (2015). "Downregulation of microRNA221 decreases migration and invasion in fibroblastlike synoviocytes in rheumatoid arthritis." Mol Med Rep 12(2): 2395-2401. MicroRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) are a group of non-coding RNAs that regulate the activity of target mRNAs and cellular processes, and which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. miR-221 is one of the miRNAs that regulate cell proliferation, invasion and apoptosis in tumors. However, the role of miR-221 in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains to be fully elucidated. Therefore, the present study was undertaken to identify the role of miR-221 in RA. The expression of miR-221 in serum and synovial tissues of patients with RA and healthy controls was confirmed by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis. The effects of miR-221 on pro-inflammatory cytokines and a chemokine were assessed by ELISA. The effects of miR-221 on cell apoptosis, migration and invasion in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were also assessed in vitro. The results showed that miR-221 expression in serum and synovial tissues of patients with RA was higher than that in healthy controls. Downregulation of miR-221 significantly suppressed the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the chemokine, and inhibited FLS cell migration and invasion via inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3 and MMP-9 expression. In addition, downregulation of miR-221 significantly induced cell apoptosis and decreased survivin and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein expression. These findings indicated that downregulation of miR-221 inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the chemokine, suppressed FLS cell migration and invasion, and induced cell apoptosis. Therefore, miR-221 is likely to be implicated in RA pathogenesis via these mechanisms, and may be a target for the treatment of RA.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) are a group of non-coding RNAs that regulate the activity of target mRNAs and cellular processes, and which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. miR-221 is one of the miRNAs that regulate cell proliferation, invasion and apoptosis in tumors. However, the role of miR-221 in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains to be fully elucidated. Therefore, the present study was undertaken to identify the role of miR-221 in RA. The expression of miR-221 in serum and synovial tissues of patients with RA and healthy controls was confirmed by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis. The effects of miR-221 on pro-inflammatory cytokines and a chemokine were assessed by ELISA. The effects of miR-221 on cell apoptosis, migration and invasion in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were also assessed in vitro. The results showed that miR-221 expression in serum and synovial tissues of patients with RA was higher than that in healthy controls. Downregulation of miR-221 significantly suppressed the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the chemokine, and inhibited FLS cell migration and invasion via inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3 and MMP-9 expression. In addition, downregulation of miR-221 significantly induced cell apoptosis and decreased survivin and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein expression. These findings indicated that downregulation of miR-221 inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the chemokine, suppressed FLS cell migration and invasion, and induced cell apoptosis. Therefore, miR-221 is likely to be implicated in RA pathogenesis via these mechanisms, and may be a target for the treatment of RA.

Yang, W. H., C. H. Tsai, et al. (2014). "Leptin induces oncostatin M production in osteoblasts by downregulating miR-93 through the Akt signaling pathway." Int J Mol Sci 15(9): 15778-15790. Inflammatory response and articular destruction are common symptoms of osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Leptin, an adipocyte-secreted hormone that centrally regulates weight control, may exert proinflammatory effects in the joint, depending on the immune response. Yet, the mechanism of leptin interacting with the arthritic inflammatory response is unclear. This study finds that leptin increased expression of oncostatin M (OSM) in human osteoblasts in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. In addition, OBRl, but not OBRs receptor antisense oligonucleotide, abolished the leptin-mediated increase of OSM expression. On the other hand, leptin inhibited miR-93 expression; an miR-93 mimic reversed leptin-increased OSM expression. Stimulation of osteoblasts with leptin promoted Akt phosphorylation, while pretreatment of cells with Akt inhibitor or siRNA reversed leptin-inhibited miR-93 expression. Our results showed that leptin heightened OSM expression by downregulating miR-93 through the Akt signaling pathway in osteoblasts, suggesting leptin as a novel target in arthritis treatment.. Inflammatory response and articular destruction are common symptoms of osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Leptin, an adipocyte-secreted hormone that centrally regulates weight control, may exert proinflammatory effects in the joint, depending on the immune response. Yet, the mechanism of leptin interacting with the arthritic inflammatory response is unclear. This study finds that leptin increased expression of oncostatin M (OSM) in human osteoblasts in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. In addition, OBRl, but not OBRs receptor antisense oligonucleotide, abolished the leptin-mediated increase of OSM expression. On the other hand, leptin inhibited miR-93 expression; an miR-93 mimic reversed leptin-increased OSM expression. Stimulation of osteoblasts with leptin promoted Akt phosphorylation, while pretreatment of cells with Akt inhibitor or siRNA reversed leptin-inhibited miR-93 expression. Our results showed that leptin heightened OSM expression by downregulating miR-93 through the Akt signaling pathway in osteoblasts, suggesting leptin as a novel target in arthritis treatment.

Yang, Y., Y. Wang, et al. (2017). "MiR-338-5p Promotes Inflammatory Response of Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes in Rheumatoid Arthritis via Targeting SPRY1." J Cell Biochem 118(8): 2295-2301. Our purpose is to study the roles of microRNA-338-5p (miR-338-5p) on the proliferation, invasion, and inflammatory response of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (SFs) in rheumatoid arthritis patients by regulating SPRY1. The target relationship between miR-338-5p and SPRY1 was validated through luciferase reporter system. The expression of miR-338-5p and SPRY1 in synovial tissues and synovial cells were detected using RT-PCR and western blot. The mimics and inhibitors of miR-338-5p were transfected into SFs. MTT, Transwell, and ELISA assays were used to analyze cell proliferation, invasiveness, and the secreted extracellular pro-inflammatory cytokines (such as IL-1a, IL-6, COX2) levels of SFs. MiR-338-5p was highly expressed in rheumatoid arthritis tissues and cells, and directly down-regulated the expression of SPRY1 in the SFs of rheumatoid arthritis patients. Cell proliferation, invasiveness and the expression level of pro-inflammatory cytokines in synovial cells increased after the transfection of miR-338-5p mimics, while the proliferation, invasion and expression level of pro-inflammatory cytokines decreased after the transfection of miR-338-5p inhibitors. In conclusion,miR-338-5p promoted the proliferation, invasion and inflammatory reaction in SFs of rheumatoid arthritis by directly down-regulating SPRY1 expression. J. Cell. Biochem. 118: 2295-2301, 2017. (c) 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.. Our purpose is to study the roles of microRNA-338-5p (miR-338-5p) on the proliferation, invasion, and inflammatory response of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (SFs) in rheumatoid arthritis patients by regulating SPRY1. The target relationship between miR-338-5p and SPRY1 was validated through luciferase reporter system. The expression of miR-338-5p and SPRY1 in synovial tissues and synovial cells were detected using RT-PCR and western blot. The mimics and inhibitors of miR-338-5p were transfected into SFs. MTT, Transwell, and ELISA assays were used to analyze cell proliferation, invasiveness, and the secreted extracellular pro-inflammatory cytokines (such as IL-1a, IL-6, COX2) levels of SFs. MiR-338-5p was highly expressed in rheumatoid arthritis tissues and cells, and directly down-regulated the expression of SPRY1 in the SFs of rheumatoid arthritis patients. Cell proliferation, invasiveness and the expression level of pro-inflammatory cytokines in synovial cells increased after the transfection of miR-338-5p mimics, while the proliferation, invasion and expression level of pro-inflammatory cytokines decreased after the transfection of miR-338-5p inhibitors. In conclusion,miR-338-5p promoted the proliferation, invasion and inflammatory reaction in SFs of rheumatoid arthritis by directly down-regulating SPRY1 expression. J. Cell. Biochem. 118: 2295-2301, 2017. (c) 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Yang, Z., J. Wang, et al. (2018). "miR-143-3p regulates cell proliferation and apoptosis by targeting IGF1R and IGFBP5 and regulating the Ras/p38 MAPK signaling pathway in rheumatoid arthritis." Exp Ther Med 15(4): 3781-3790. It has been demonstrated that the deregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) affects the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The primary objective of the current study was to determine the role of miR-143-3p in the progression of RA. The expression of miR-143-3p in synovium taken from patients with RA was assessed by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The expression of miR-143-3p was higher in synovium tissues of RA than that of osteoarthritis (OA). The decreased expression of miR-143-3p suppressed cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis in vitro. In addition, inhibition of miR-143-3p decreased levels of inflammatory cytokines, as determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. IGF1R and IGFBP5 were found to be the target genes of miR-143-3p, and it was demonstrated that miR-143-3p regulated the proliferation and apoptosis of MH7A cells by targeting IGF1R and IGFBP5. Furthermore, TNF-alpha treatment stimulated the Ras/p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, whereas miR-143-3p inhibition suppressed it. The results of the current study indicate that miR-143-3p may regulate cell proliferation and apoptosis by targeting IGF1R and IGFBP5 expression and regulating the Ras/p38 MAPK signaling pathways. Therefore, miR-143-3p may be a novel therapeutic target in RA.. It has been demonstrated that the deregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) affects the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The primary objective of the current study was to determine the role of miR-143-3p in the progression of RA. The expression of miR-143-3p in synovium taken from patients with RA was assessed by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The expression of miR-143-3p was higher in synovium tissues of RA than that of osteoarthritis (OA). The decreased expression of miR-143-3p suppressed cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis in vitro. In addition, inhibition of miR-143-3p decreased levels of inflammatory cytokines, as determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. IGF1R and IGFBP5 were found to be the target genes of miR-143-3p, and it was demonstrated that miR-143-3p regulated the proliferation and apoptosis of MH7A cells by targeting IGF1R and IGFBP5. Furthermore, TNF-alpha treatment stimulated the Ras/p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, whereas miR-143-3p inhibition suppressed it. The results of the current study indicate that miR-143-3p may regulate cell proliferation and apoptosis by targeting IGF1R and IGFBP5 expression and regulating the Ras/p38 MAPK signaling pathways. Therefore, miR-143-3p may be a novel therapeutic target in RA.

Ye, Y., X. Gao, et al. (2018). "LncRNA ZFAS1 promotes cell migration and invasion of fibroblast-like synoviocytes by suppression of miR-27a in rheumatoid arthritis." Hum Cell 31(1): 14-21. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic and chronic inflammatory disease. Synoviocyte migration and invasion were found to be essential to the pathology of RA. Upregulation of long noncoding RNA ZFAS1 has been observed in cancers and promotes cell migration and invasion. To date, the functions and mechanisms of ZFAS1 in RA have not been revealed. In this study, we analyzed expression pattern of ZFAS1 in RA patients and found that ZFAS1 expression was increased in synovial tissue and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) from RA patients (RA-FLS) compared with that in healthy donors. Functional assays showed that silence of ZFAS1 suppressed RA-FLS migration and invasion, while overexpression of ZFAS1 showed the opposite effect. Further investigation demonstrated that ZFAS1 directly interacted with miR-27a and decreased miR-27a expression. ZFAS1 promotes RA-FLS migration and invasion in an miR-27a-dependent manner. Taken together, the present study provides the first evidence that ZFAS1 promotes cell migration and invasion through miR-27a in RA-FLS, suggesting that ZFAS1 may be an effective therapeutic target for RA patients.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic and chronic inflammatory disease. Synoviocyte migration and invasion were found to be essential to the pathology of RA. Upregulation of long noncoding RNA ZFAS1 has been observed in cancers and promotes cell migration and invasion. To date, the functions and mechanisms of ZFAS1 in RA have not been revealed. In this study, we analyzed expression pattern of ZFAS1 in RA patients and found that ZFAS1 expression was increased in synovial tissue and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) from RA patients (RA-FLS) compared with that in healthy donors. Functional assays showed that silence of ZFAS1 suppressed RA-FLS migration and invasion, while overexpression of ZFAS1 showed the opposite effect. Further investigation demonstrated that ZFAS1 directly interacted with miR-27a and decreased miR-27a expression. ZFAS1 promotes RA-FLS migration and invasion in an miR-27a-dependent manner. Taken together, the present study provides the first evidence that ZFAS1 promotes cell migration and invasion through miR-27a in RA-FLS, suggesting that ZFAS1 may be an effective therapeutic target for RA patients.

Yin, C. M., W. C. Suen, et al. (2017). "Dysregulation of both miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p in synovial fluid correlate with osteoarthritis severity." Bone Joint Res 6(11): 612-618. OBJECTIVES: This study looked to analyse the expression levels of microRNA-140-3p and microRNA-140-5p in synovial fluid, and their correlations to the severity of disease regarding knee osteoarthritis (OA). METHODS: Knee joint synovial fluid samples were collected from 45 patients with OA of the knee (15 mild, 15 moderate and 15 severe), ten healthy volunteers, ten patients with gouty arthritis, and ten with rheumatoid arthritis. The Kellgren-Lawrence grading (KLG) was used to assess the radiological severity of knee OA, and the patients were stratified into mild (KLG < 2), moderate (KLG = 2), and severe (KLG > 2). The expression of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p of individual samples was measured by SYBR Green quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. The expression of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p was normalised to U6 internal control using the 2(- big up tri, open big up tri, openCT) method. All data were processed using SPSS software. RESULTS: Expression of both miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p was downregulated in OA synovial fluid, showing a statistical difference between the OA and non-OA group, and increased OA severity was associated with a decreased expression of miR-140-3p or miR-140-5p. The Spearman rank correlation analysis suggested that the expression of miR-140-3p or miR-140-5p was negatively correlated with OA severity. In addition, the expression of miR-140-5p was 7.4 times higher than that of miR-140-3p across all groups. CONCLUSION: The dysregulation of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p in synovial fluid and their correlations with the disease severity of OA may provide an important experimental basis for OA classification, and the miR-140-3p/miR-140-5p are of great potential as biomarkers in the diagnosis and clinical management of patients with OA.Cite this article: C-M. Yin, W-C-W. Suen, S. Lin, X-M. Wu, G. Li, X-H. Pan. Dysregulation of both miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p in synovial fluid correlate with osteoarthritis severity. Bone Joint Res 2017;6:612-618. DOI: 10.1302/2046-3758.611.BJR-2017-0090.R1.. OBJECTIVES: This study looked to analyse the expression levels of microRNA-140-3p and microRNA-140-5p in synovial fluid, and their correlations to the severity of disease regarding knee osteoarthritis (OA). METHODS: Knee joint synovial fluid samples were collected from 45 patients with OA of the knee (15 mild, 15 moderate and 15 severe), ten healthy volunteers, ten patients with gouty arthritis, and ten with rheumatoid arthritis. The Kellgren-Lawrence grading (KLG) was used to assess the radiological severity of knee OA, and the patients were stratified into mild (KLG < 2), moderate (KLG = 2), and severe (KLG > 2). The expression of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p of individual samples was measured by SYBR Green quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. The expression of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p was normalised to U6 internal control using the 2(- big up tri, open big up tri, openCT) method. All data were processed using SPSS software. RESULTS: Expression of both miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p was downregulated in OA synovial fluid, showing a statistical difference between the OA and non-OA group, and increased OA severity was associated with a decreased expression of miR-140-3p or miR-140-5p. The Spearman rank correlation analysis suggested that the expression of miR-140-3p or miR-140-5p was negatively correlated with OA severity. In addition, the expression of miR-140-5p was 7.4 times higher than that of miR-140-3p across all groups. CONCLUSION: The dysregulation of miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p in synovial fluid and their correlations with the disease severity of OA may provide an important experimental basis for OA classification, and the miR-140-3p/miR-140-5p are of great potential as biomarkers in the diagnosis and clinical management of patients with OA.Cite this article: C-M. Yin, W-C-W. Suen, S. Lin, X-M. Wu, G. Li, X-H. Pan. Dysregulation of both miR-140-3p and miR-140-5p in synovial fluid correlate with osteoarthritis severity. Bone Joint Res 2017;6:612-618. DOI: 10.1302/2046-3758.611.BJR-2017-0090.R1.

Zhang, B., L. S. Wang, et al. (2017). "Elevated microRNA-125b promotes inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis by activation of NF-kappaB pathway." Biomed Pharmacother 93: 1151-1157. microRNA-125b (miR-125b) has been reported to be increased in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the role of miR-125b in RA remains to be fully elucidated. We aimed to explore the functional role of miR-125b in RA, as well as the underlying mechanism. The expression of miR-125b in serum and synovial tissues of patients with RA and healthy controls was confirmed. In addition, the levels of miR-125b in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were also measured. FLS were transfected with miR-125b mimic, antisense oligonucleotides (ASO)-miR-125b, pcDNA-inhibitor of NF-kappaB (IkappaB)-alpha or corresponding controls, and then stimulated with LPS or incubated with nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) inhibitors pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC). The effects of miR-125b abnormal expression on pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1beta and NF-kappaB pathway key factors phospho-p65 (p-p65) and IkappaB-alpha were assessed. Pearson correlation analysis was performed to assess the relationship between miR-125b expression and pro-inflammatory cytokines expression. Result showed that, the levels of miR-125b were significantly increased in RA serum and synovial tissues, as well as in LPS-stimulated FLS (P<0.01). miR-125b overexpression statistically increased the expression of TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-1beta and p-p65 (P<0.05 or P<0.01), but markedly decreased IkappaB-alpha (P<0.05). Contrary results were obtained by miR-125b downregulation. Additionally, there were strong positive relationships between miR-125b and TNF-alpha (R(2)=0.7569, P<0.000), IL-6 (R(2)=0.8479, P<0.000), and IL-1beta (R(2)=0.8037, P<0.000). Moreover, the upregulated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines were markedly decreased by PDTC (P<0.01) and further downregulated by co-transfection with pcDNA-IkappaB-alpha (P<0.01). In conclusion, our results suggest that elevated miR-125b promotes inflammation in RA by activation of NF-kappaB pathway.. microRNA-125b (miR-125b) has been reported to be increased in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the role of miR-125b in RA remains to be fully elucidated. We aimed to explore the functional role of miR-125b in RA, as well as the underlying mechanism. The expression of miR-125b in serum and synovial tissues of patients with RA and healthy controls was confirmed. In addition, the levels of miR-125b in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were also measured. FLS were transfected with miR-125b mimic, antisense oligonucleotides (ASO)-miR-125b, pcDNA-inhibitor of NF-kappaB (IkappaB)-alpha or corresponding controls, and then stimulated with LPS or incubated with nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) inhibitors pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC). The effects of miR-125b abnormal expression on pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1beta and NF-kappaB pathway key factors phospho-p65 (p-p65) and IkappaB-alpha were assessed. Pearson correlation analysis was performed to assess the relationship between miR-125b expression and pro-inflammatory cytokines expression. Result showed that, the levels of miR-125b were significantly increased in RA serum and synovial tissues, as well as in LPS-stimulated FLS (P<0.01). miR-125b overexpression statistically increased the expression of TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-1beta and p-p65 (P<0.05 or P<0.01), but markedly decreased IkappaB-alpha (P<0.05). Contrary results were obtained by miR-125b downregulation. Additionally, there were strong positive relationships between miR-125b and TNF-alpha (R(2)=0.7569, P<0.000), IL-6 (R(2)=0.8479, P<0.000), and IL-1beta (R(2)=0.8037, P<0.000). Moreover, the upregulated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines were markedly decreased by PDTC (P<0.01) and further downregulated by co-transfection with pcDNA-IkappaB-alpha (P<0.01). In conclusion, our results suggest that elevated miR-125b promotes inflammation in RA by activation of NF-kappaB pathway.

Zhang, H., X. Huang, et al. (2018). "B Cell-Related Circulating MicroRNAs With the Potential Value of Biomarkers in the Differential Diagnosis, and Distinguishment Between the Disease Activity and Lupus Nephritis for Systemic Lupus Erythematosus." Front Immunol 9: 1473. Our understanding of circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) related to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) remains very limited. In this study, we screened SLE-specific miRNAs in plasma from 42 B cell-related miRNAs by using miRNA PCR Array. The selected miRNAs were first confirmed in plasma samples from 50 SLE patients, 16 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, and 20 healthy donors using qRT-PCR. We then investigated the relationship between expressions of the selected miRNAs and SLE clinical indicators. As a result, 14 miRNAs (miR-103, miR-150, miR-20a, miR-223, miR-27a, miR-15b, miR-16, miR-181a, miR-19b, miR-22, miR-23a, miR-25, miR-92a, and miR-93) were significantly decreased in the plasma of SLE patients compared with healthy controls (P < 0.05) and could act as the diagnostic signature to distinguish SLE patients from healthy donors. Six miRNAs (miR-92a, miR-27a, miR-19b, miR-23a, miR-223, and miR-16) expressed in plasma were significantly lower in SLE patients than in RA patients (P < 0.05), revealing the potentially diagnostic signature to distinguish SLE patients from RA patients. Furthermore, the downregulated expression of miR-19b, miR-25, miR-93, and miR-15b was associated with SLE disease activity (P < 0.05) while miR-15b and miR-22 expressions were significantly lower in SLE patients with low estimate glomerular filtration rate (eGFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) (P < 0.05). The diagnostic potential of miR-15b for SLE disease activity and lupus nephritis (LN) with low eGFR was validated on an independent validation set with 69 SLE patients and a cross-validation set with 80 SLE patients. In summary, the signature of circulating miRNAs will provide novel biomarkers for the diagnosis of SLE and evaluation of disease activity and LN.. Our understanding of circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) related to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) remains very limited. In this study, we screened SLE-specific miRNAs in plasma from 42 B cell-related miRNAs by using miRNA PCR Array. The selected miRNAs were first confirmed in plasma samples from 50 SLE patients, 16 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, and 20 healthy donors using qRT-PCR. We then investigated the relationship between expressions of the selected miRNAs and SLE clinical indicators. As a result, 14 miRNAs (miR-103, miR-150, miR-20a, miR-223, miR-27a, miR-15b, miR-16, miR-181a, miR-19b, miR-22, miR-23a, miR-25, miR-92a, and miR-93) were significantly decreased in the plasma of SLE patients compared with healthy controls (P < 0.05) and could act as the diagnostic signature to distinguish SLE patients from healthy donors. Six miRNAs (miR-92a, miR-27a, miR-19b, miR-23a, miR-223, and miR-16) expressed in plasma were significantly lower in SLE patients than in RA patients (P < 0.05), revealing the potentially diagnostic signature to distinguish SLE patients from RA patients. Furthermore, the downregulated expression of miR-19b, miR-25, miR-93, and miR-15b was associated with SLE disease activity (P < 0.05) while miR-15b and miR-22 expressions were significantly lower in SLE patients with low estimate glomerular filtration rate (eGFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) (P < 0.05). The diagnostic potential of miR-15b for SLE disease activity and lupus nephritis (LN) with low eGFR was validated on an independent validation set with 69 SLE patients and a cross-validation set with 80 SLE patients. In summary, the signature of circulating miRNAs will provide novel biomarkers for the diagnosis of SLE and evaluation of disease activity and LN.

Zhang, H., J. Li, et al. (2016). "Effects of celastrol on enhancing apoptosis of ovarian cancer cells via the downregulation of microRNA21 and the suppression of the PI3K/AktNFkappaB signaling pathway in an in vitro model of ovarian carcinoma." Mol Med Rep 14(6): 5363-5368. Celastrol has previously been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, bruises, back pain and additional diseases. At present, efficacy studies predominantly focus on the antiinflammatory, antioxidative and antitumor effects of celastrol. However, the effect of celastrol on ovarian cancer cells is not fully elucidated. In the present study, the effects of celastrol were investigated in ovarian cancer cells and the mechanisms involved were explored. In OVCAR3 cells, celastrol was observed to suppress cellular proliferation, induce apoptosis and increase caspase9 and 3 activity in a dose and timedependent manner. The expression levels of microRNA21 (miRNA21) were reduced, in addition to a reduction in the levels of phosphoinositide 3kinase (PI3K)/pAktNF (NF)kappaB following treatment with celastrol. Notably, reduced expression of miRNA21 replicated the effect of celastrol on OVCAR3 cells and inhibited the PI3K/pAktNFkappaB signaling pathway in an in vitro model of ovarian carcinoma. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to indicate that celastrol may represent a potential agent for the treatment of human ovarian carcinoma, via the induction of apoptosis through the downregulation of miRNA21 and the PI3K/AktNFkappaB signaling pathway in an in vitro model of ovarian carcinoma.. Celastrol has previously been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, bruises, back pain and additional diseases. At present, efficacy studies predominantly focus on the antiinflammatory, antioxidative and antitumor effects of celastrol. However, the effect of celastrol on ovarian cancer cells is not fully elucidated. In the present study, the effects of celastrol were investigated in ovarian cancer cells and the mechanisms involved were explored. In OVCAR3 cells, celastrol was observed to suppress cellular proliferation, induce apoptosis and increase caspase9 and 3 activity in a dose and timedependent manner. The expression levels of microRNA21 (miRNA21) were reduced, in addition to a reduction in the levels of phosphoinositide 3kinase (PI3K)/pAktNF (NF)kappaB following treatment with celastrol. Notably, reduced expression of miRNA21 replicated the effect of celastrol on OVCAR3 cells and inhibited the PI3K/pAktNFkappaB signaling pathway in an in vitro model of ovarian carcinoma. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to indicate that celastrol may represent a potential agent for the treatment of human ovarian carcinoma, via the induction of apoptosis through the downregulation of miRNA21 and the PI3K/AktNFkappaB signaling pathway in an in vitro model of ovarian carcinoma.

Zhang, H. J., Q. F. Wei, et al. (2017). "LncRNA HOTAIR alleviates rheumatoid arthritis by targeting miR-138 and inactivating NF-kappaB pathway." Int Immunopharmacol 50: 283-290. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic and autoimmune-mediated inflammatory disease. We aimed to investigate the regulation of lncRNA HOTAIR in LPS-treated chondrocytes and RA mouse. Our results showed that HOTAIR expression was significantly reduced in LPS-treated chondrocytes. The HOTAIR was then over-expressed in chondrocytes by transfecting recombinant lentivirus carrying sequences encoding HOTAIR. The LPS-induced reduction of cell proliferation rate and production of two inflammatory factors interleukin (IL)-17, IL-23 were markedly inhibited. Enforced expression of HOTAIR also led to the upregulation of proliferation-related protein Ki67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Moreover, a negative correlation was detected between the expression of HOTAIR and microRNA (miR)-138, and the expression of miR-138 was significantly increased in LPS-induced chondrocytes. The effects of HOTAIR over-expression on the proliferation and inflammation were partly reversed by miR-138 overexpression. Furthermore, the overexpression of HOTAIR significantly inhibited the activation of nuclear transcription factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in LPS-treated chondrocytes by suppressing p65 to cell nucleus, resulting in the down-regulation of IL-1beta and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. In addition, the in vivo experiments exhibited that overexpression of HOTAIR increased cell proliferation and inhibited inflammation in RA rats, which were demonstrated by upregulation of Ki67 and PCNA, reduced CD4(+)IL-17(+),CD4(+)IL-23(+) cells, and down-regulation of p-p65, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha. In summary, our study suggests HOTAIR plays a protective role in RA by increasing proliferation rate and inhibiting inflammation, which may be related with the regulation of miR-138 expression and NF-kappaB signaling pathway. These results suggest that the regulation of HOTAIR may be a promising therapeutic strategy for RA.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic and autoimmune-mediated inflammatory disease. We aimed to investigate the regulation of lncRNA HOTAIR in LPS-treated chondrocytes and RA mouse. Our results showed that HOTAIR expression was significantly reduced in LPS-treated chondrocytes. The HOTAIR was then over-expressed in chondrocytes by transfecting recombinant lentivirus carrying sequences encoding HOTAIR. The LPS-induced reduction of cell proliferation rate and production of two inflammatory factors interleukin (IL)-17, IL-23 were markedly inhibited. Enforced expression of HOTAIR also led to the upregulation of proliferation-related protein Ki67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Moreover, a negative correlation was detected between the expression of HOTAIR and microRNA (miR)-138, and the expression of miR-138 was significantly increased in LPS-induced chondrocytes. The effects of HOTAIR over-expression on the proliferation and inflammation were partly reversed by miR-138 overexpression. Furthermore, the overexpression of HOTAIR significantly inhibited the activation of nuclear transcription factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in LPS-treated chondrocytes by suppressing p65 to cell nucleus, resulting in the down-regulation of IL-1beta and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. In addition, the in vivo experiments exhibited that overexpression of HOTAIR increased cell proliferation and inhibited inflammation in RA rats, which were demonstrated by upregulation of Ki67 and PCNA, reduced CD4(+)IL-17(+),CD4(+)IL-23(+) cells, and down-regulation of p-p65, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha. In summary, our study suggests HOTAIR plays a protective role in RA by increasing proliferation rate and inhibiting inflammation, which may be related with the regulation of miR-138 expression and NF-kappaB signaling pathway. These results suggest that the regulation of HOTAIR may be a promising therapeutic strategy for RA.

Zhang, X. H., Y. N. Zhang, et al. (2014). "MicroRNA in chronic rhinosinusitis and allergic rhinitis." Curr Allergy Asthma Rep 14(2): 415. Inflammatory upper airway diseases, particularly chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) and allergic rhinitis (AR), have a high worldwide prevalence. CRS and AR involve sustained and exaggerated inflammation that is associated with marked changes in gene and protein expression under tight regulation. A novel group of gene expression regulators is a class of short single-stranded RNA molecules termed microRNAs (miRNAs). miRNAs can cause gene silencing through degradation of target mRNAs or inhibition of translation. Dysregulated expression of miRNAs has been shown in various human diseases, such as cancer, inflammatory skin and bowel diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, and asthma. Although studies of miRNAs in inflammatory upper airway diseases are relatively new and few, emerging evidence implicates an involvement of miRNAs in shaping the inflammation pattern in upper airways. The purpose of this review is to provide an overview on our current understanding of miRNA expression and function in CRS and AR, and to underscore the potential for clinical usage of miRNAs in CRS and AR.. Inflammatory upper airway diseases, particularly chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) and allergic rhinitis (AR), have a high worldwide prevalence. CRS and AR involve sustained and exaggerated inflammation that is associated with marked changes in gene and protein expression under tight regulation. A novel group of gene expression regulators is a class of short single-stranded RNA molecules termed microRNAs (miRNAs). miRNAs can cause gene silencing through degradation of target mRNAs or inhibition of translation. Dysregulated expression of miRNAs has been shown in various human diseases, such as cancer, inflammatory skin and bowel diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, and asthma. Although studies of miRNAs in inflammatory upper airway diseases are relatively new and few, emerging evidence implicates an involvement of miRNAs in shaping the inflammation pattern in upper airways. The purpose of this review is to provide an overview on our current understanding of miRNA expression and function in CRS and AR, and to underscore the potential for clinical usage of miRNAs in CRS and AR.

Zhang, Y., H. Wang, et al. (2018). "A Novel Circulating miRNA-Based Model Predicts the Response to Tripterysium Glycosides Tablets: Moving Toward Model-Based Precision Medicine in Rheumatoid Arthritis." Front Pharmacol 9: 378. Accumulating clinical evidence show that not all rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients benefit to the same extent from a Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TwHF)-based therapy-Tripterysium glycosides tablets (TG tablets), which emphasizes the need of predictive biomarkers and tools for drug response. Herein, we integrated TG tablets' response-related miRNA and mRNA expression profiles obtained from the clinical cohort-based microarray, miRNA target prediction, miRNA-target gene coexpression, as well as gene-gene interactions, to identify four candidate circulating miRNA biomarkers that were predictive of response to TG tablets. Moreover, we applied the support vector machines (SVM) algorithm to construct the prediction model for the treatment outcome of TG tablets based on the levels of the candidate miRNA biomarkers, and also confirmed its good performance via both 5-fold cross-validation and the independent clinical cohort validations. Collectively, this circulating miRNA-based biomarker model may assist in screening the responsive RA patients to TG tablets and thus potentially benefit individualized therapy of RA in a daily clinical setting.. Accumulating clinical evidence show that not all rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients benefit to the same extent from a Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TwHF)-based therapy-Tripterysium glycosides tablets (TG tablets), which emphasizes the need of predictive biomarkers and tools for drug response. Herein, we integrated TG tablets' response-related miRNA and mRNA expression profiles obtained from the clinical cohort-based microarray, miRNA target prediction, miRNA-target gene coexpression, as well as gene-gene interactions, to identify four candidate circulating miRNA biomarkers that were predictive of response to TG tablets. Moreover, we applied the support vector machines (SVM) algorithm to construct the prediction model for the treatment outcome of TG tablets based on the levels of the candidate miRNA biomarkers, and also confirmed its good performance via both 5-fold cross-validation and the independent clinical cohort validations. Collectively, this circulating miRNA-based biomarker model may assist in screening the responsive RA patients to TG tablets and thus potentially benefit individualized therapy of RA in a daily clinical setting.

Zheng, F., X. Yu, et al. (2017). "Circular RNA expression profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in rheumatoid arthritis patients, based on microarray chip technology." Mol Med Rep 16(6): 8029-8036. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by chronic synovial inflammation and finally leads to variable degrees of bone and cartilage erosion. The diagnosis of RA is not an accurate indicator, but a series of scores and the mechanisms underlying it remain only partially understood. The present study explored whether circular RNAs (circRNAs) contribute to the RA pathophysiological mechanism. Total RNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 10 RA patients and 10 healthy controls were extracted and circRNA expression profiling was followed by microarray analysis. In addition, circRNA interactions with microRNAs were performed and microRNA response elements were listed to identify differentially expressed binding site targets in RA. Reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction amplification (RTqPCR) was used to verify the differential expression of circRNAs. A total of 584 circRNAs were differentially expressed in RA patients vs. healthy controls, by circRNA microarray, including 255 circRNAs which were significantly upregulated and 329 downregulated among the RA samples. RTqPCR validation demonstrated that the expression levels of hsa_circRNA_104194, hsa_circRNA_104593, hsa_circRNA_103334, hsa_circRNA_101407 and hsa_circRNA_102594 were consistent with the results from the microarray analysis. The current study presented differentially expressed circRNAs and their corresponding microRNA binding sites in RA. circRNAs may exhibit a role in the regulation of expression of symbol genes that influence the occurrence and development of RA.. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by chronic synovial inflammation and finally leads to variable degrees of bone and cartilage erosion. The diagnosis of RA is not an accurate indicator, but a series of scores and the mechanisms underlying it remain only partially understood. The present study explored whether circular RNAs (circRNAs) contribute to the RA pathophysiological mechanism. Total RNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 10 RA patients and 10 healthy controls were extracted and circRNA expression profiling was followed by microarray analysis. In addition, circRNA interactions with microRNAs were performed and microRNA response elements were listed to identify differentially expressed binding site targets in RA. Reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction amplification (RTqPCR) was used to verify the differential expression of circRNAs. A total of 584 circRNAs were differentially expressed in RA patients vs. healthy controls, by circRNA microarray, including 255 circRNAs which were significantly upregulated and 329 downregulated among the RA samples. RTqPCR validation demonstrated that the expression levels of hsa_circRNA_104194, hsa_circRNA_104593, hsa_circRNA_103334, hsa_circRNA_101407 and hsa_circRNA_102594 were consistent with the results from the microarray analysis. The current study presented differentially expressed circRNAs and their corresponding microRNA binding sites in RA. circRNAs may exhibit a role in the regulation of expression of symbol genes that influence the occurrence and development of RA.

Zhou, L. L., Y. M. Zhu, et al. (2018). "MicroRNA1433p contributes to the regulation of pain responses in collageninduced arthritis." Mol Med Rep 18(3): 3219-3228. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) suffer from pain, which is associated with inflammation, peripheral and central pain processing, and joint structure damage. The aim of the present study was to investigate a key microRNA (miR) and its target genes that are involved in the pain responses of RA, and to clarify the mechanism of pain regulation. Collageninduced arthritis (CIA) was induced in DBA/1 and C57BL/6 mice. The paw swelling, mechanical withdrawal threshold (MWT), thermal withdrawal latency (TWL), and expression levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha and prostaglandin (PG)E2 in the sera were investigated. Decreased MWT and TWL, and increased TNFalpha and PGE2, in the CIA model group were observed in DBA/1 and C57BL/6 mice. DBA/1 mice exhibited greater hyperalgesia and higher levels of inflammatory mediators. miR1433p expression in the blood and the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) were detected, and low miR1433p expression was demonstrated in the blood and DRG tissue of CIA mice. The target genes of miR143 were predicted and analyzed. A total of 1,305 genes were predicted and 55 painassociated genes were obtained. Prostaglandinendoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), MAS related GPR family member E (Mrgpre), prostaglandin D2 receptor and Tnf were selected as target genes of miR143. DRG cells were cultured and transfected with miR1433p inhibitor or mimic. The expression of Mrgpre, Ptgs2 and Tnf was significantly inhibited following miR1433p mimic transfection, while the expression of Mrgpre, Ptgs2 and Tnf was increased following inhibitor transfection. Additionally, the expression of painassociated genes in the DRG of mice was investigated and the expression of Ptgs2, Mrgpre and Tnf in the DRG of CIA mice was also significantly upregulated. These results revealed that CIA mice exhibited marked hyperalgesia and high levels of inflammatory pain mediators. Low expression of miR1433p negatively regulated the painassociated target genes, including Mrgpre, Ptgs2 and Tnf, thereby affecting chronic inflammatory pain and neuropathic pain in RA.. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) suffer from pain, which is associated with inflammation, peripheral and central pain processing, and joint structure damage. The aim of the present study was to investigate a key microRNA (miR) and its target genes that are involved in the pain responses of RA, and to clarify the mechanism of pain regulation. Collageninduced arthritis (CIA) was induced in DBA/1 and C57BL/6 mice. The paw swelling, mechanical withdrawal threshold (MWT), thermal withdrawal latency (TWL), and expression levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha and prostaglandin (PG)E2 in the sera were investigated. Decreased MWT and TWL, and increased TNFalpha and PGE2, in the CIA model group were observed in DBA/1 and C57BL/6 mice. DBA/1 mice exhibited greater hyperalgesia and higher levels of inflammatory mediators. miR1433p expression in the blood and the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) were detected, and low miR1433p expression was demonstrated in the blood and DRG tissue of CIA mice. The target genes of miR143 were predicted and analyzed. A total of 1,305 genes were predicted and 55 painassociated genes were obtained. Prostaglandinendoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), MAS related GPR family member E (Mrgpre), prostaglandin D2 receptor and Tnf were selected as target genes of miR143. DRG cells were cultured and transfected with miR1433p inhibitor or mimic. The expression of Mrgpre, Ptgs2 and Tnf was significantly inhibited following miR1433p mimic transfection, while the expression of Mrgpre, Ptgs2 and Tnf was increased following inhibitor transfection. Additionally, the expression of painassociated genes in the DRG of mice was investigated and the expression of Ptgs2, Mrgpre and Tnf in the DRG of CIA mice was also significantly upregulated. These results revealed that CIA mice exhibited marked hyperalgesia and high levels of inflammatory pain mediators. Low expression of miR1433p negatively regulated the painassociated target genes, including Mrgpre, Ptgs2 and Tnf, thereby affecting chronic inflammatory pain and neuropathic pain in RA.

Zhou, Q., S. Haupt, et al. (2015). "Decreased expression of miR-146a and miR-155 contributes to an abnormal Treg phenotype in patients with rheumatoid arthritis." Ann Rheum Dis 74(6): 1265-1274. OBJECTIVES: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, not least for their critical role in the regulation of regulatory T cell (Treg) function. Deregulated expression of miR-146a and miR-155 has been associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We therefore investigated miR-146a and miR-155 expression in Tregs of patients with RA and their possible impact on Treg function and disease activity. METHODS: Expression of miR-146a and miR-155 was assessed in RA patients and controls. MiRNA expression was correlated with disease activity and expression of target genes. Interference with biological activity of miRNAs was evaluated in functional Treg assays. RESULTS: Diminished upregulation of miR-146a and miR-155 in response to T cell stimulation was found in Tregs of RA patients. Diminution of miR-146a expression was observed in particular in patients with active disease, and correlated with joint inflammation. In patients with active RA, Tregs demonstrated a pro-inflammatory phenotype characterised by inflammatory cytokine expression. This was due to an augmented expression and activation of signal transducer and activator transcription 1 (STAT1), a direct target of miR-146a. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that in RA miR-146a facilitates a pro-inflammatory phenotype of Tregs via increased STAT1 activation, and contributes thereby to RA pathogenesis.. OBJECTIVES: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, not least for their critical role in the regulation of regulatory T cell (Treg) function. Deregulated expression of miR-146a and miR-155 has been associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We therefore investigated miR-146a and miR-155 expression in Tregs of patients with RA and their possible impact on Treg function and disease activity. METHODS: Expression of miR-146a and miR-155 was assessed in RA patients and controls. MiRNA expression was correlated with disease activity and expression of target genes. Interference with biological activity of miRNAs was evaluated in functional Treg assays. RESULTS: Diminished upregulation of miR-146a and miR-155 in response to T cell stimulation was found in Tregs of RA patients. Diminution of miR-146a expression was observed in particular in patients with active disease, and correlated with joint inflammation. In patients with active RA, Tregs demonstrated a pro-inflammatory phenotype characterised by inflammatory cytokine expression. This was due to an augmented expression and activation of signal transducer and activator transcription 1 (STAT1), a direct target of miR-146a. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that in RA miR-146a facilitates a pro-inflammatory phenotype of Tregs via increased STAT1 activation, and contributes thereby to RA pathogenesis.

Zhou, Q., L. Long, et al. (2013). "Research of the methylation status of miR-124a gene promoter among rheumatoid arthritis patients." Clin Dev Immunol 2013: 524204. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the methylation status of miR-124a loci in synovial tissues of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP). MATERIALS AND METHODS: DNA obtained from the frozen tissue of 7 RA samples, 6 osteoarthritis (OA) samples, and 3 healthy controls were undergoing bisulfite conversion and then analyzed for miR-124a promoter methylation using MSP assay. RESULTS: miR-124-a1 and miR-124-a2 promoter methylation were both seen in 71.4% of RA samples compared to 16.7% of OA samples. miR-124-a3 promoter methylation was seen in 57.1% of RA samples and 0% of OA samples. All the three loci were unmethylated in 3 healthy controls. CONCLUSION: The methylation status of miR-124a seen in this study concurs with that reported in tumor cells, indicating epigenetic dysregulation constituents, a mechanism in the development of rheumatoid arthritis.. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the methylation status of miR-124a loci in synovial tissues of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP). MATERIALS AND METHODS: DNA obtained from the frozen tissue of 7 RA samples, 6 osteoarthritis (OA) samples, and 3 healthy controls were undergoing bisulfite conversion and then analyzed for miR-124a promoter methylation using MSP assay. RESULTS: miR-124-a1 and miR-124-a2 promoter methylation were both seen in 71.4% of RA samples compared to 16.7% of OA samples. miR-124-a3 promoter methylation was seen in 57.1% of RA samples and 0% of OA samples. All the three loci were unmethylated in 3 healthy controls. CONCLUSION: The methylation status of miR-124a seen in this study concurs with that reported in tumor cells, indicating epigenetic dysregulation constituents, a mechanism in the development of rheumatoid arthritis.

Zhou, Q., L. Long, et al. (2016). "Demethylation of MicroRNA-124a Genes Attenuated Proliferation of Rheumatoid Arthritis Derived Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes and Synthesis of Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha." PLoS One 11(11): e0164207. OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-AzadC) on methylation status of miR-124a genes in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) associated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) and its effect on RA-FLS proliferation and TNF-alpha expression. MATERIALS AND METHODS: FLS were isolated from seven RA-derived synovial tissues and cultured in vitro. The expression of miR-124a was measured by real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in FLS with or without 5-AzadC treatment. MiR-124a gene methylation was detected by methylation-specific PCR. FLS were divided into three groups as control, IL-1beta and IL-1beta/5-AzadC, respectively. The cells in the IL-1beta group were treated with 5 mug/L of IL-1beta for 24 hours, whereas the cells in the IL-1beta/5-AzadC group were first treated with IL-1beta exactly as those in the IL-1beta group for 24 h but further treated with 1muM 5-AzadC for additional 3 days. The cell growth was estimated based on absorbance at UV450nm. Secreted TNF-alpha from the cells was evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. After that, RA-FLS treated with IL-1beta plus 5-AzadC were further transfected with miR-124a inhibitor or scrambled control. After culturing for 3 days, cell growth and TNF-alpha concentrations were measured. RESULTS: After 5-AzadC treatment, the expression of miR-124a was significantly increased compared with the control group (1.545 +/- 0.189 vs 0.836 +/- 0.166, p = 0.001). On the other hand, 5-AzadC significantly reduced IL-1beta-mediated cell proliferation by nearly 2.5 fold (p = 0.006). Also, the level of TNF-alpha secreted from the cells treated with IL-1beta plus 5-AzadC was considerably less than that from the cells treated with IL-1beta alone (324.99 +/- 22.73 ng/L vs 387.91 +/- 58.51 ng/L, p = 0.022). After transfection with miR-124a inhibitor in RA-FLS treated with IL-1beta plus 5-AzadC, the cell proliferation was increased by 18.2% and the TNF-alpha expression was increased by 19.0% (p = 0.001 and 0.011, respectively). CONCLUSION: Methylation of miR-124a genes contributed to IL-1beta-mediated RA-FLS proliferation and TNF-alpha expression.. OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-AzadC) on methylation status of miR-124a genes in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) associated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) and its effect on RA-FLS proliferation and TNF-alpha expression. MATERIALS AND METHODS: FLS were isolated from seven RA-derived synovial tissues and cultured in vitro. The expression of miR-124a was measured by real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in FLS with or without 5-AzadC treatment. MiR-124a gene methylation was detected by methylation-specific PCR. FLS were divided into three groups as control, IL-1beta and IL-1beta/5-AzadC, respectively. The cells in the IL-1beta group were treated with 5 mug/L of IL-1beta for 24 hours, whereas the cells in the IL-1beta/5-AzadC group were first treated with IL-1beta exactly as those in the IL-1beta group for 24 h but further treated with 1muM 5-AzadC for additional 3 days. The cell growth was estimated based on absorbance at UV450nm. Secreted TNF-alpha from the cells was evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. After that, RA-FLS treated with IL-1beta plus 5-AzadC were further transfected with miR-124a inhibitor or scrambled control. After culturing for 3 days, cell growth and TNF-alpha concentrations were measured. RESULTS: After 5-AzadC treatment, the expression of miR-124a was significantly increased compared with the control group (1.545 +/- 0.189 vs 0.836 +/- 0.166, p = 0.001). On the other hand, 5-AzadC significantly reduced IL-1beta-mediated cell proliferation by nearly 2.5 fold (p = 0.006). Also, the level of TNF-alpha secreted from the cells treated with IL-1beta plus 5-AzadC was considerably less than that from the cells treated with IL-1beta alone (324.99 +/- 22.73 ng/L vs 387.91 +/- 58.51 ng/L, p = 0.022). After transfection with miR-124a inhibitor in RA-FLS treated with IL-1beta plus 5-AzadC, the cell proliferation was increased by 18.2% and the TNF-alpha expression was increased by 19.0% (p = 0.001 and 0.011, respectively). CONCLUSION: Methylation of miR-124a genes contributed to IL-1beta-mediated RA-FLS proliferation and TNF-alpha expression.

Zhou, X., L. Chen, et al. (2017). "The roles and perspectives of microRNAs as biomarkers for intervertebral disc degeneration." J Tissue Eng Regen Med 11(12): 3481-3487. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are highly conserved molecules that regulate protein levels post-transcriptionally. Aberrant miRNA expression presents in various musculoskeletal disorders, such as osteoporosis, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. The expression levels of miRNAs are characterized by endogenous properties and tissue specificity. This raises the possibility that miRNAs could serve as useful clinical biomarkers in the diagnosis of certain diseases. Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is one of the major causes of back pain, and a process characterized by a cascade of molecular, cellular, biochemical and structural changes. The presence of dysregulated miRNA expression in patients with disc degeneration diseases indicates that miRNAs may play a vital role in the pathogenesis of IDD. Here, we provide an introduction of the roles of miRNAs in the process of IDD, and the prospective application of miRNAs as biomarkers for IDD. Copyright (c) 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are highly conserved molecules that regulate protein levels post-transcriptionally. Aberrant miRNA expression presents in various musculoskeletal disorders, such as osteoporosis, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. The expression levels of miRNAs are characterized by endogenous properties and tissue specificity. This raises the possibility that miRNAs could serve as useful clinical biomarkers in the diagnosis of certain diseases. Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is one of the major causes of back pain, and a process characterized by a cascade of molecular, cellular, biochemical and structural changes. The presence of dysregulated miRNA expression in patients with disc degeneration diseases indicates that miRNAs may play a vital role in the pathogenesis of IDD. Here, we provide an introduction of the roles of miRNAs in the process of IDD, and the prospective application of miRNAs as biomarkers for IDD. Copyright (c) 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Zhou, X., J. Zhu, et al. (2015). "Is the microRNA-146a (rs2910164) polymorphism associated with rheumatoid arthritis? Association of microRNA-146a (rs2910164) polymorphism and rheumatoid arthritis could depend on gender." Joint Bone Spine 82(3): 166-171. BACKGROUND: To investigate a possible effect of a gene mutation on rheumatoid arthritis (RA), we performed genotyping, in a hospital-based, case-control study in a Chinese cohort, relating the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of microRNA (miRNA)-146a (rs2910164) to RA and undertook a meta-analysis using the available literature. METHODS: Six hundred and fifteen RA patients and 839 controls were enrolled in our study. A polymorphism of the miRNA-146a (rs2910164) gene was detected using a custom-by-design 48-Plex SNPscan TM Kit. In addition, we performed a systematic literature research and identified an additional 7 studies with 1066 cases and 1513 controls. RESULTS: We did not find a significant association of miRNA-146a polymorphism with an RA risk in our data. And the results of the meta-analyses suggested no significant association between miRNA-146a polymorphism and RA in any genetic model. However, when the subgroup analyses were performed, genotype GG was observed to be significantly associated with RA in females. And the DAS28 score may also be significantly influenced by CC genotype. CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggested that miRNA-146a polymorphism might not be associated with RA susceptibility. However, the miRNA-146 GG genotype might increase the risk of RA in females, and CC genotype may influence disease activity when evaluated with DAS28 score.. BACKGROUND: To investigate a possible effect of a gene mutation on rheumatoid arthritis (RA), we performed genotyping, in a hospital-based, case-control study in a Chinese cohort, relating the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of microRNA (miRNA)-146a (rs2910164) to RA and undertook a meta-analysis using the available literature. METHODS: Six hundred and fifteen RA patients and 839 controls were enrolled in our study. A polymorphism of the miRNA-146a (rs2910164) gene was detected using a custom-by-design 48-Plex SNPscan TM Kit. In addition, we performed a systematic literature research and identified an additional 7 studies with 1066 cases and 1513 controls. RESULTS: We did not find a significant association of miRNA-146a polymorphism with an RA risk in our data. And the results of the meta-analyses suggested no significant association between miRNA-146a polymorphism and RA in any genetic model. However, when the subgroup analyses were performed, genotype GG was observed to be significantly associated with RA in females. And the DAS28 score may also be significantly influenced by CC genotype. CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggested that miRNA-146a polymorphism might not be associated with RA susceptibility. However, the miRNA-146 GG genotype might increase the risk of RA in females, and CC genotype may influence disease activity when evaluated with DAS28 score.

Zhu, S., W. Pan, et al. (2012). "The microRNA miR-23b suppresses IL-17-associated autoimmune inflammation by targeting TAB2, TAB3 and IKK-alpha." Nat Med 18(7): 1077-1086. Inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-17 (IL-17) promote inflammatory autoimmune diseases. Although several microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to regulate autoimmune pathogenesis by affecting lymphocyte development and function, the role of miRNAs in resident cells present in inflammatory lesions remains unclear. Here we show that miR-23b is downregulated in inflammatory lesions of humans with lupus or rheumatoid arthritis, as well as in the mouse models of lupus, rheumatoid arthritis or multiple sclerosis. IL-17 downregulates miR-23b expression in human fibroblast-like synoviocytes, mouse primary kidney cells and astrocytes and is essential for the downregulation of miR-23b during autoimmune pathogenesis. In turn, miR-23b suppresses IL-17-, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha)- or IL-1beta-induced NF-kappaB activation and inflammatory cytokine expression by targeting TGF-beta-activated kinase 1/MAP3K7 binding protein 2 (TAB2), TAB3 and inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase subunit alpha (IKK-alpha) and, consequently, represses autoimmune inflammation. Thus, IL-17 contributes to autoimmune pathogenesis by suppressing miR-23b expression in radio-resident cells and promoting proinflammatory cytokine expression.. Inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-17 (IL-17) promote inflammatory autoimmune diseases. Although several microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to regulate autoimmune pathogenesis by affecting lymphocyte development and function, the role of miRNAs in resident cells present in inflammatory lesions remains unclear. Here we show that miR-23b is downregulated in inflammatory lesions of humans with lupus or rheumatoid arthritis, as well as in the mouse models of lupus, rheumatoid arthritis or multiple sclerosis. IL-17 downregulates miR-23b expression in human fibroblast-like synoviocytes, mouse primary kidney cells and astrocytes and is essential for the downregulation of miR-23b during autoimmune pathogenesis. In turn, miR-23b suppresses IL-17-, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha)- or IL-1beta-induced NF-kappaB activation and inflammatory cytokine expression by targeting TGF-beta-activated kinase 1/MAP3K7 binding protein 2 (TAB2), TAB3 and inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase subunit alpha (IKK-alpha) and, consequently, represses autoimmune inflammation. Thus, IL-17 contributes to autoimmune pathogenesis by suppressing miR-23b expression in radio-resident cells and promoting proinflammatory cytokine expression.

Zhu, W., J. Yu, et al. (2017). "MiR-let-7a regulates anti-citrullinated protein antibody-induced macrophage activation and correlates with the development of experimental rheumatoid arthritis." Int Immunopharmacol 51: 40-46. Anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) are a key serological marker of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To investigate whether miR-let7a downregulated ACPA-induced macrophage activation and arthritis, miR-let7a levels were assessed in the synovial fluid from patients with RA or osteoarthritis (OA). In addition, expression of the pro-inflammatory genes HMGA2, PI3K, and IRF5 was examined in ACPA-induced macrophages and a collagen antibody-induced mouse model of arthritis. As expected, miR-let7a expression in synovial fluid macrophages was substantially lower in patients with RA than in those with OA. Moreover, ACPAs treatment (160IU/mL) suppressed miR-let7a expression in macrophages isolated from patients with RA. Mechanistic studies revealed that miR-let7a directly targets HMGA2 to suppress ACPA-induced IRF5 expression through PI3K in macrophages. Further, miR-let7a expression was markedly decreased in swollen ankle tissue and splenocytes isolated from arthritic mice, whereas HMGA2, PI3K, and IRF5 expression positively correlated with disease severity. However, injection miR-let7a agomir was unable to mitigate the development of experimental arthritis in model mice. Collectively, these data demonstrated that miR-let7a directly targets HMGA2 to downregulate ACPAs-induced macrophage activation, and correlated with experimental RA severity.. Anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) are a key serological marker of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To investigate whether miR-let7a downregulated ACPA-induced macrophage activation and arthritis, miR-let7a levels were assessed in the synovial fluid from patients with RA or osteoarthritis (OA). In addition, expression of the pro-inflammatory genes HMGA2, PI3K, and IRF5 was examined in ACPA-induced macrophages and a collagen antibody-induced mouse model of arthritis. As expected, miR-let7a expression in synovial fluid macrophages was substantially lower in patients with RA than in those with OA. Moreover, ACPAs treatment (160IU/mL) suppressed miR-let7a expression in macrophages isolated from patients with RA. Mechanistic studies revealed that miR-let7a directly targets HMGA2 to suppress ACPA-induced IRF5 expression through PI3K in macrophages. Further, miR-let7a expression was markedly decreased in swollen ankle tissue and splenocytes isolated from arthritic mice, whereas HMGA2, PI3K, and IRF5 expression positively correlated with disease severity. However, injection miR-let7a agomir was unable to mitigate the development of experimental arthritis in model mice. Collectively, these data demonstrated that miR-let7a directly targets HMGA2 to downregulate ACPAs-induced macrophage activation, and correlated with experimental RA severity.

